ManipalCigna Sarvah is the product and ‘Param’, ‘Uttam’ and ‘Pratham’ are the names of available plans under the said product. *Optional cover on payment of additional premium Disclaimer: ManipalCigna Health Insurance Company Limited | CIN: U66000MH2012PLC227948 | IRDAI Reg. No.: 151 | Registered Oﬃce: 401/ 402, 4th Floor, Raheja Titanium, Oﬀ Western Express Highway, Goregaon East, Mumbai – 400 063 | For more details on coverage, waiting periods, exclusions, risk factors, terms and conditions, please read the sales brochure/ Prospectus/Policy Wordings available on our website (Download section) before concluding a sale | Trade Name / Trade Logo belongs to MEMG International India Private Limited and Cigna Intellectual Property Inc. and is being used by ManipalCigna Health Insurance Company Limited under license | Toll Free: 1800-102-4462 | Website: www.manipalcigna.com | ManipalCigna Sarvah UIN: MCIHLIP26038V022526 | ARN: ADV/2304/Nov/2024-25 No Need to worry about ﬁnances during a major medical event. With Pratham, get hospitalization coverage up to 3 cr for Heart Conditions, Cancer, Stroke and major Organ/Bone Marrow Transplant, so you can focus fully on your recovery without risking your savings or any other investments. BE SECURE STAY WORRY-FREE We know how much your health means to you and the need for a complete health insurance. ManipalCigna Sarvah has you covered. With Sarvah, you can feel secure knowing we’re always by your side, every step of the way. ManipalCigna Sarvah Pratham Plan is an essential shield for your health insurance journey. Sarvah Pratham is designed to oﬀer essential coverage while ensuring that unexpected medical expenses don't strain your savings. This plan oﬀers dependable support to ensure you and your family remain ﬁnancially secure during signiﬁcant medical events. Uncertainties don’t wait, then why should you? With Sarathi, get your waiting period reduced to 30 days from the usual 36 months, even if you have Pre-Existing diseases such as Asthma, Diabetes, Dyslipidemia, Obesity, Hypertension. YOUR SARATHI* IN A TRUE SENSE Your Gullak balance grows by 100% of the Base Sum Insured each year with a guaranteed 15x bonus, safeguarding you against inﬂation and ensuring your coverage never runs out ENJOY 15X BONUS WITH GULLAK* ADVANTAGE Base Sum Insured ₹10 Lac grows to ₹1.6 Crore - at no additional premium. After 1 Year After 2 Years After 3 Years After 4 Years After 5 Years Base SI `10L Total SI `20L Total SI `30L Total SI `40L After 6 Years After 7 Years After 8 Years After 9 Years After 10 Years After 11 Years After 12 Years After 13 Years After 14 Years After 15 Years Total SI `50L Total SI `60L Total SI `70L Total SI `80L Total SI `90L Total SI `1Cr Total SI `1.1Cr Total SI `1.2Cr Total SI `1.3Cr Total SI `1.4Cr Total SI `1.5Cr Total SI `1.6Cr Get double the protection. From day one, receive an extra 100% of your Base Sum Insured for the ﬁrst claim each policy year, so you're prepared for everything. STAY FULFILLED WITH SURPLUS BENEFIT* Accidents can happen anytime, anywhere. Protect your family with accident cover and get a ﬁxed beneﬁt coverage up to Rs 3 cr. Pay for the treatment, not the location. Get treated in any city of your choice without any additional ﬁnancial burden. Because your care should never be limited by geography. Stay healthy by walking and enjoy up to 20% oﬀ on your premium with wellness beneﬁts, renew within 15 days to get an extra 2.5% discount, and earn up to 7.5% oﬀ with a no-claim year. Because with ManipalCigna Sarvah good health comes with great savings. Note: No claim discount will be earned till the eldest age in the policy is less than 56. The level of discount earned till the age of 55 will continue to be carried forward till there is a claim in the Policy. After the claim, the discount level will be reset to 0 and it will not accrue again. GOOD HEALTH, GREAT REWARDS PC_41_RW_3714_MCHI SARVAH Accordion_Pratham_12x20 Sarvanand, your go to Sarvah Expert brings you the new and improved ManipalCigna Sarvah Pratham Plan. With its wit and mystical charm, Sarvanand guides you to the best plans for you and your loved ones, oﬀering wisdom and care you can trust. ESSENTIAL COVERAGE FOR MAJOR ILLNESSES GET SHIELDED WITH PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVER* BE STRESS-FREE WITH NO ZONAL CO-PAY *T&C apply *T&C apply Year 1(no claim) Year 2(no claim) Year 3(no claim) Year 4(no claim) Year 5(claim) Year 6(no claim) YEARS RENEWAL PREMIUM DISCOUNT 2.5% 5% 7.5% 7.5% 0% 2.5% POCKET FRIENDLY FIRST INSURANCE SARVAH PRATHAM ESSENTIAL SHIELD Essential Health Insurance Plan Winner Health Insurance Category awarded in June 2025. Survey of 1800 people by NielsenIQ. Challenges don’t stop, and neither should your coverage. Restore your Base Sum Insured unlimited times in a policy year for both related and unrelated illnesses or injuries, providing continuous protection for you and your family. GET REST ASSURED WITH RESTORATION* + Lorem ipsum Suppose 2nd claim is of `12L, with Restoration benefit your new cover available is `18L Scan the QR code and download the myManipalCigna app To begin your worry-free journey with Sarvah Pratham Digital Policy eServicing Claims SADA SECURE RAHO! Scan to know more PC_41_RW_3714_MCHI SARVAH Accordion_Pratham_12x20 Scan to know more Temporary Total Disablement (TTD) If the Insured Person suffers an injury due to an accident that occurs during the policy period and such Injury results in the Temporary Total Disablement of the Insured Person immediately after an Accident, We will pay fixed weekly benefit for the duration of the TTD. Health Check Up Available each policy year (including the first year), to all Adult insured persons who have completed 18 years of Age. • For Base Sum Insured of Rs 5 lacs: Package 1 • For Base Sum Insured of Rs 7.5 lacs and Rs 10 lacs: Package 2 • For Base Sum Insured above Rs 10 lacs: Package 3 The packages shall be offered on cashless basis only. Air Ambulance Covered up to Sum Insured subject to maximum of Rs10 Lacs in addition to the Base Sum Insured, for expenses incurred on Air Ambulance Restoration (When opted Sum Insured is insufficient due to claims) Multiple Restoration is available in a Policy Year for all illnesses and injury, in addition to the Base Sum Insured. Applicable for below covers only 1. D.I.1 – In-patient Hospitalization 2. D.I.2 – Day Care Treatment 3. D.I.3 – Pre - hospitalization Medical Expenses 4. D.I.4 – Post – hospitalization Medical Expenses 5. D.I.6 – Road Ambulance 6. D.I.7 – Donor Expenses 7. D.I.8 – AYUSH Treatment Restoration shall not get triggered for the 1st claim. Gullak (Guaranteed Cumulative Bonus) We will provide an option to policyholder to get Guaranteed increase 100% of Base Sum Insured for each policy year up to the maximum of 1500% of Base Sum Insured irrespective of any claim made in the previous Policy Year. Sarathi If the Policyholder opts for this optional cover, any hospitalization related to Cancer, Heart, Stroke, & Major Organ/ Bone Marrow Transplant arising due to the below listed Pre-existing disease declared and accepted at the time of policy issuance, will be covered after the first 30 days from the policy Inception date.. i. Asthma ii. Diabetes iii. Dyslipidemia iv. Obesity v. Hypertension Note – This optional cover is available only at inception (First Policy Year) and not on renewal. Once Opted, it cannot be withdrawn in subsequent renewal. Room Rent Modification Surplus Benefit The Policyholder shall be eligible to modify the room type category eligibility under the Policy as follows: Option 1: Any room; ICU Up to Sum Insured or Option 2: Twin Sharing AC room; ICU Up to Sum Insured Additional 100% of Base Sum Insured, available from day 1 for 1st claim only, in each policy year. (Surplus Benefit and Shakti are mutually exclusive) Shakti The Insured Person can avail an additional 100% or 200% of the Base Sum Insured, as specified in the Policy Schedule, for all admissible claims in a Policy Year. Conditions: i. Applicable only after exhaustion of the Base Sum Insured. ii. Can be utilized for any number of admissible claims during the Policy Year iii. Any unutilized amount of Shakti will not be carried forward to the next Policy Year. iv. Shakti and Surplus Benefit are mutually exclusive. Deductible Insured has option to choose either Option 1 – Aggregate Deductible of ₹10K, ₹25K , ₹50K, ₹1L, ₹2L, ₹3L, ₹4L , ₹5L or ₹10L or Option 2 – Per Day Deductible of ₹1K, ₹2K, ₹3K, ₹4K or ₹5K per day of Hospitalization on all admissible claims. Voluntary Co-Payment Options of 10%, 20% or 30% will be applicable on each and every claim Coverage for Non-Medical Items and Durable Medical Equipment 1. Non-Medical Items Non-Medical items covered up to the Sum Insured opted under the policy, in case of In-patient Hospitalization or Day Care Treatment or Domically hospitalization. 2. Durable Medical Equipment Durable Medical Equipment up to ₹1 Lac in case, prescribed during hospitalization or within 30 days post-discharge. (CPAP Machine, BPAP Machine, Ventilator, Wheelchair, Prosthetic Device, Suction Machine, Commode Chairs, Infusion Pump, Continuous Passive Motion Devices In Case Of Knee Replacement, Oxygen Concentrator) Coverage Options ₹5K, ₹10K, ₹15K, ₹20K, ₹25K, ₹50K, ₹1L per week. Note: i. Max No. of Weeks Covered – 100 in respect of any one Injury calculated from the date of commencement of the Temporary Total Disablement. ii. Available only if Personal Accident Cover is opted. iii. TTD Cover is available only for the earning members in the Policy. iv. This benefit shall be applicable only for events or occurrences taking place within the geographical boundaries of India Note: i. Claims under Accidental Death, Permanent Total Disablement, and Permanent Partial Disablement shall be payable only in respect of accident occurring within India. Age wise 18-45 46- 60 Max 20 times of the Gainful Annual Income Max 10 times of the Gainful Annual Income >60 above Eligibility of Beneﬁt Amount will be up to a maximum times of Annual Income of the Proposer or Earning member to be Insured. (as detailed below) Please refer to the Plan and Base Sum Insured you have opted to understand the available benefits under your plan in brief: Relationship Covered Identify your Plan ManipalCigna Sarvah -Pratham Individual: Self, legally married spouse or live-in partner, son, daughter, father/ mother/ father-in-law/ mother-in-law/ son-in-law/ daughter-in-law/ grand-parents/ grandchildren/ uncle/ aunt/ nephew/ niece/ brother/ sister/ sister in-law/ brother in-law. Floater: Self, legally married spouse or live-in partner, dependent children (natural / legally adopted), dependent parents/ parents-in-law This section lists the Basic benefits available on your this Policy Identify your Opted Base Sum Insured (in ₹) ₹5 Lacs, 7.5 Lacs, 10 Lacs, 15 Lacs, 20 Lacs, 25 Lacs, 50 Lacs, 100 Lacs, 200 Lacs, 300 Lacs In-patient Hospitalization (When you are hospitalized) Covered up to Sum Insured Room Rent: Covered up to Single Private AC Room For ICU - Covered up to Sum Insured. Listed Modern and Advanced Treatments: Up to Sum Insured Day Care Treatment All Day Care Procedure related to specified disease/illness, covered up to Sum Insured. Pre –hospitalization Medical Expenses Medical Expenses incurred during policy period covered up to 90 days before the date of hospitalization; covered up to the Sum Insured Post – hospitalization Medical Expenses Medical Expenses covered up to 180 days post discharge from the hospital; covered up to the Sum Insured Domiciliary Hospitalization (Treatment at Home) Covered up to the Sum Insured Pre and Post Hospitalization Expenses: 30 days each Road Ambulance (Reimbursement of Ambulance Expenses) Covered up to the Sum Insured Donor Expenses (Hospitalization Expenses of the donor providing the organ) Covered up to the Sum Insured • Pre & Post Hospitalization expenses (Up to 30 days each) of the donor • Cost towards donor screening once in a Policy year for successful transplant • Complications arising during hospitalization or up to 30 days from date of discharge – Covered up to 25% of Base Sum Insured subject to maximum of ₹2 Lacs, Over and above Base Sum Insured We will not cover expenses towards the Donor in respect of cost associated to the acquisition of the organ. AYUSH Treatment Covered up to the Sum Insured Your Coverage Details: Basic Cover This section lists the additional value added benefits that are available along with your plan Tele-Consultation Unlimited Tele-consultation with General Physician during the Policy Year Wellness Program Rewards can be earned by completing activities specified under Our Healthy Life Management Program up to maximum of 20% of expiring base Premium (excluding Premium for optional covers other than Deductible, Voluntary Co-Payment, Twin AC Sharing Room, Rider and taxes as applicable). These earned Reward Points can be used as premium discount from 1st Renewal of the Policy. Carry forward of earned Reward Points shall not be allowed. Discount from Network Provider Discount on Pharmacy, Diagnostics and Health Supplements offered by the Network Providers of ManipalCigna Health Insurance Company Limited Accidental Hospitalization Covered up to Sum Insured Value Added Covers Personal Accident Cover Coverage under this option is available on Individual and Family Basis. Min Age at Entry – 5 Years, Max Age at Entry 65 Years. Relationships Covered - Self, Lawfully Wedded Spouse/Live-in Partner, Dependent Children, Depen- dent Parents/Parent in laws Individual Benefit amount - ₹10L, ₹15L, ₹20L, ₹25L, ₹30L, ₹40L, ₹50L, ₹1Cr, ₹2Cr, ₹3Cr Family Cover Sum Insured Eligibility Family Cover Benefit Amount Eligibility This section lists the available optional covers under your plan and the limits under each of these options Optional Covers Title Description Benefits at a glance Scope of Cover Accidental Death (AD) Permanent Partial Disablement (PTD) Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) % of PA Cover 100% of the Personal Accident Cover Benefit Amount. 200% of Benefit Amount (if Death/PTD) occurs due to an Accident while travelling as a fare paying passenger on a common carrier. % of Personal Accident Sum Insured. (as defined in the Grid) Earning Member Non- earning Spouse/Live-in Partner 60% of the Benefit amount of Earning member 30% of the Benefit amount, max up to ₹30Lacs Dependent Children /Parents/Parents -in-Laws As per Beneﬁt Amount Opted