ManipalCigna Sarvah is the product and ‘Param’, ‘Uttam’ and ‘Pratham’ are the names of available plans under the said product. *Optional cover on payment of additional premium Disclaimer: ManipalCigna Health Insurance Company Limited | CIN: U66000MH2012PLC227948 | IRDAI Reg. No.: 151 | Registered Oﬃce: 401/ 402, 4th Floor, Raheja Titanium, Oﬀ Western Express Highway, Goregaon East, Mumbai – 400 063 | For more details on coverage, waiting periods, exclusions, risk factors, terms and conditions, please read the sales brochure/ Prospectus/Policy Wordings available on our website (Download section) before concluding a sale | Trade Name / Trade Logo belongs to MEMG International India Private Limited and Cigna Intellectual Property Inc. and is being used by ManipalCigna Health Insurance Company Limited under license | Toll Free: 1800-102-4462 | Website: www.manipalcigna.com | ManipalCigna Sarvah UIN: MCIHLIP26038V022526 | ARN: ADV/2306/Nov/2024-25 *T&C apply With Tatkal Beneﬁt get absolutely Zero Waiting Period ensuring you receive the care and coverage you need right from the start. No delays, just instant and complete assurance TRUE SECURITY WITH TATKAL BENEFIT No more worries about running out of funds with endless coverage! With the Anant Beneﬁt, enjoy inﬁnite Sum Insured and no limit on claims for hospitalizations due to Heart Conditions, Cancer, Stroke, Major Organ/Bone Marrow Transplant or Accident - where you need ﬁnancial support the most, without impacting your savings or investments. Now, focus on your recovery, not the hefty medical bills. GET ANANT CARE WITH ANANT* BENEFIT With Maternity and Newborn cover, enjoy peace of mind knowing you and your growing family are protected during life’s precious milestones and welcome the new born without any worry in this beautiful world. STAY FUTURE-PROOF WITH OUR MATERNITY AND NEWBORN COVERAGE* Get double the protection. From day one, receive an extra 100% of your Base Sum Insured for the ﬁrst claim each policy year, so you're prepared for everything. STAY FULFILLED WITH SURPLUS BENEFIT* Your Base Cover With Surplus Benefit* Your Base Cover Year 1(no claim) Year 2(no claim) Year 3(no claim) Year 4(no claim) Year 5(claim) Year 6(no claim) YEARS RENEWAL PREMIUM DISCOUNT 2.5% 5% 7.5% 7.5% 0% 2.5% Stay healthy by walking and enjoy up to 20% oﬀ on your premium with Wellness beneﬁts, renew within 15 days to get an extra 2.5% discount, and earn up to 7.5% oﬀ with a no-claim year. Because with ManipalCigna Sarvah good health comes with great savings. Note: No claim discount will be earned till the eldest age in the policy is less than 56. The level of discount earned till the age of 55 will continue to be carried forward till there is a claim in the Policy. After the claim, the discount level will be reset to 0 and it will not accrue again. GOOD HEALTH, GREAT REWARDS Challenges don’t stop, and neither should your coverage. Restore your Base Sum Insured unlimited times in a policy year for both related and unrelated illnesses or injuries, providing continuous protection for you and your family. GET REST ASSURED WITH RESTORATION + Suppose 2nd claim is of `12L, with Restoration benefit your new cover available is `18L We know how much your health means to you and the need for a complete health insurance. ManipalCigna Sarvah has you covered. With Sarvah, you can feel secure knowing we’re always by your side, every step of the way. Health problems don’t wait for anyone, then why should you? Experience the freedom of a truly unlimited~ and comprehensive health coverage from day one with ManipalCigna Sarvah Param Plan. From the moment you sign up our policy ensures you're protected against unforeseen medical expenses, without delays or limits. Enjoy peace of mind knowing that your health is our priority. Sarvanand, your go to Sarvah Expert brings you the new and improved ManipalCigna Sarvah Param. With its wit and mystical charm, Sarvanand guides you to the best plans for you and your loved ones, oﬀering wisdom and care you can trust. INFINITE COVERAGE, ZERO WAITING PERIOD. TOTAL PEACE OF MIND. Your Gullak balance grows by 100% of the Base Sum Insured each year with a guaranteed 15x bonus, safeguarding you against inﬂation and ensuring your coverage never runs out ENJOY 15X BONUS WITH GULLAK ADVANTAGE Base Sum Insured ₹10 Lac grows to ₹1.6 Crore — at no additional premium. After 1 Year After 2 Years After 3 Years After 4 Years After 5 Years Base SI `10L Total SI `20L Total SI `30L Total SI `40L After 6 Years After 7 Years After 8 Years After 9 Years After 10 Years After 11 Years After 12 Years After 13 Years After 14 Years After 15 Years Total SI `50L Total SI `60L Total SI `70L Total SI `80L Total SI `90L Total SI `1Cr Total SI `1.1Cr Total SI `1.2Cr Total SI `1.3Cr Total SI `1.4Cr Total SI `1.5Cr Total SI `1.6Cr INSTANT PEACE Instant Health Insurance Plan Winner Health Insurance Category awarded in June 2025. Survey of 1800 people by NielsenIQ. ~Available as an optional cover with Anant beneﬁt on payment of additional premium PC_41_RW_3714_MCHI SARVAH Accordion_Param_12x20 Scan to know more Temporary Total Disablement (TTD) If the Insured Person suffers an injury due to an accident that occurs during the policy period and such Injury results in the Temporary Total Disablement of the Insured Person immediately after an Accident, We will pay fixed weekly benefit for the duration of the TTD. Air Ambulance Covered up to Sum Insured subject to maximum of ₹10 Lacs in addition to the base Sum Insured, for expenses incurred on Air Ambulance Room Rent Modification The Policyholder shall be eligible to modify the room type category eligibility under the Policy as follows: Option 1: Any room; ICU Up to Sum Insured or Option 2: Twin Sharing AC room; ICU Up to Sum Insured Surplus Benefit Additional 100% of Base Sum Insured, available from day 1 for 1st claim only, in each policy year. (Surplus Benefit and Shakti are mutually exclusive) Shakti The Insured Person can avail an additional 100% or 200% of the Base Sum Insured, as specified in the Policy Schedule, for all admissible claims in a Policy Year. Conditions: i. Applicable only after exhaustion of the Base Sum Insured. ii. Can be utilized for any number of admissible claims during the Policy Year iii. Any unutilized amount of Shakti will not be carried forward to the next Policy Year. iv. Shakti and Surplus Benefit are mutually exclusive. Anant If the Insured Person opts for this Optional Cover, in the event of any Hospitaliza- tion related to Cancer, Heart, Stroke, Major Organ / Bone Marrow Transplant, or Accident, We will cover all Medical Expenses incurred under: • Section D.I.1 – In-patient Hospitalisation • Section D.I.2 – Day Care Treatment • Section D.I.8 – AYUSH Treatment without any Sum Insured limit, for unlimited times during the Policy Year. Notes: i. This cover can only be opted at the time of first Policy purchase and cannot be added at subsequent Renewals. ii. Available only with Base Sum Insured of ₹10 Lacs. iii. This benefit applies at the Policy level, irrespective of Policy type (Individual/- Family Floater). iv. Voluntary Co-payment, Deductible (if opted), and applicable Sub-limits shall also apply. v. This cover is applicable only for diagnosis, occurrences, and treatments taken within India. Deductible Insured has option to choose either Option 1 – Aggregate Deductible of ₹10K, ₹25K , ₹50K, ₹1L, ₹2L, ₹3L, ₹4L , ₹5L or ₹10L or Option 2 – Per Day Deductible of ₹1K, ₹2K, ₹3K, ₹4K or ₹5K per day of Hospitalization on all admissible claims. Voluntary Co-Payment Options of 10%, 20% or 30% will be applicable on each and every claim Coverage for Non-Medical Items and Durable Medical Equipment 1. Non-Medical Items Non-Medical items covered up to the Sum Insured opted under the base policy, in case of In-patient Hospitalization or Day Care Treatment or Domiciliary Hospitalization. 2. Durable Medical Equipment Durable Medical Equipment up to ₹1 Lac in case, prescribed during hospitalization or within 30 days post-discharge. (CPAP Machine, BPAP Machine, Ventilator, Wheelchair, Prosthetic Device, Suction Machine, Commode Chairs, Infusion Pump, Continuous Passive Motion Devices In Case Of Knee Replacement, Oxygen Concentrator) Pratiksha If the Policyholder opts for this optional cover, then we shall apply the specific disease/procedure waiting period and initial waiting period as defined under section E.I.1 and E.I.2 respectively on this policy. Note: i. This optional cover can be opted at the first policy purchase with Us and cannot be opted at subsequent renewal. ii. Once this optional cover is opted, it cannot be opted out in subsequent renewal. iii. This benefit will be applied at the policy level irrespective of policy type. iv. Selection of this optional cover is not applicable for Portability/Migration cases. Maternity & New Born Hospitalization Expenses Maternity & New Born Hospitalization Expenses a. Maternity Cover (up to a maximum 2 deliveries or terminations) Covered up to 20% of Base Sum Insured opted, subject to a maximum of ₹5 Lac, in addition to the Base Sum Insured opted. b. New Born Baby Coverage for the In-patient Hospitalization expenses of a new born, up to the limit provided under Maternity Expenses. c. First Year Vaccination Covered as per national immunization program, up to the limit provided under Maternity Expenses. In Individual Policies, Maternity Expenses will be offered to Adult Insured Male members as well. However, claims under this benefit shall be payable to the female spouse upon adding her as an Insured in the Policy. In such cases, the applicable waiting period shall be as per the first inception of the Policy. Note: i. The female adult Insured Person should have been covered under the base Policy & Maternity Expenses for at least 36 months before availing this benefit. ii. The payment towards any admitted claim will be restricted to Maternity Sum Insured however any restored amount (if applicable) will not be available for coverage under this section. iii. Voluntary Co-Payment or Deductible (if opted) shall also apply to this benefit. iv. In case of migration/portability cases, the Insured Person shall be entitled to continuity of waiting periods only up to the Maternity Sum Insured available in previous policy subject to overall limit applicable under this benefit. Coverage Options ₹5K, ₹10K, ₹15K, ₹20K, ₹25K, ₹50K, ₹1L per week. Note: i. Max No. of Weeks Covered – 100 in respect of any one Injury calculated from the date of commencement of the Temporary Total Disablement. ii. Available only if Personal Accident Cover is opted. iii. TTD Cover is available only for the earning members in India in the Policy. iv. This benefit shall be applicable only for events or occurrences taking place within the geographical boundaries of India. Please refer to the Plan and Base Sum Insured you have opted to understand the available benefits under your plan in brief: Relationship Covered Identify your Plan ManipalCigna Sarvah - Param Individual: Self, legally married spouse or live-in partner, son, daughter, father/ mother/ father-in-law/ mother-in-law/ son-in-law/ daughter-in-law/ grand-parents/ grandchildren/ uncle/ aunt/ nephew/ niece/ brother/ sister/ sister in-law/ brother in-law. Floater: Self, legally married spouse or live-in partner, dependent children (natural / legally adopted), dependent parents/ parents-in-law This section lists the Basic benefits available on your this Policy Identify your Opted Base Sum Insured (in ₹) ₹5 Lacs, 7.5 Lacs, 10 Lacs, 15 Lacs, 20 Lacs, 25 Lacs, 50 Lacs, 100 Lacs, 200 Lacs, 300 Lacs In-patient Hospitalization (When you are hospitalized) Covered up to Sum Insured Room Rent: Covered up to Single Private AC Room For ICU - Covered up to Sum Insured This benefit shall also offer the below covers up to the limits mentioned: i.Modern and Advanced Treatments: Covered up to Sum Insured ii.HIV/AIDS & STD: Covered up to Sum Insured iii.Mental Illness: Covered up to Sum Insured Day Care Treatment All Day Care Procedure covered up to Sum Insured. Pre –hospitalization Medical Expenses Medical Expenses incurred during policy period covered up to 90 days before the date of hospitalization; covered up to the Sum Insured Post – hospitalization Medical Expenses Medical Expenses covered up to 180 days post discharge from the hospital; covered up to the Sum Insured Domiciliary Hospitalization (Treatment at Home) Covered up to the Sum Insured Pre and Post Hospitalization Expenses: 30 days each Road Ambulance (Reimbursement of Ambulance Expenses) Covered up to the Sum Insured Donor Expenses (Hospitalization Expenses of the donor providing the organ) Covered up to the Sum Insured • Pre & Post Hospitalization expenses (Up to 30 days each) of the donor • Cost towards donor screening once in a Policy year for successful transplant • Complications arising during hospitalization or up to 30 days from date of discharge – Covered up to 25% of Base Sum Insured subject to maximum of ₹2 Lacs, Over and above Base Sum Insured We will not cover expenses towards the Donor in respect of cost associated to the acquisition of the organ. AYUSH Treatment Restoration (When opted Sum Insured is insufficient due to claims) Covered up to the Sum Insured Multiple Restoration is available in a Policy Year for all illnesses and injury,, in addition to the Base Sum Insured Applicable for below covers only 1. D.I.1 – In-patient Hospitalization 2. D.I.2 – Day Care Treatment 3. D.I.3 – Pre - hospitalization Medical Expenses 4. D.I.4 – Post – hospitalization Medical Expenses 5. D.I.6 – Road Ambulance 6. D.I.7 – Donor Expenses 7. D.I.8 – AYUSH Treatment Restoration shall not get triggered for the 1st claim. Gullak (Guaranteed Cumulative Bonus) We will provide an option to policyholder to get Guaranteed increase 100% of Base Sum Insured for each policy year up to the maximum of 1500% of Base Sum Insured irrespective of any claim made in the previous Policy Year. Your Coverage Details: Basic Cover This section lists the additional value added benefits that are available along with your plan Tele-Consultation Unlimited Tele-consultation with General Physician during the Policy Year Wellness Program Rewards can be earned by completing activities specified under Our Healthy Life Management Program up to maximum of 20% of expiring base Premium (excluding Premium for optional covers other than ‘Deductible’, ‘Voluntary Co-Payment’, ‘Twin Sharing AC Room’, ‘Pratiksha’, Rider and taxes as applicable). These earned Reward Points can be used as premium discount from 1st Renewal of the Policy. Carry forward of earned Reward Points shall not be allowed. Discount from Network Provider Discount on Pharmacy, Diagnostics and Health Supplements offered by the Network Providers of ManipalCigna Health Insurance Company Limited Health Check Up Available each policy year (including the first year), to all Adult insured persons who have completed 18 years of Age. • For Base Sum Insured of ₹5 lacs: Package 1 • For Base Sum Insured of ₹7.5 lacs and ₹10 lacs: Package 2 • For Base Sum Insured above ₹10 lacs: Package 3 The packages shall be offered on cashless basis only. Value Added Covers This section lists the available optional covers under your plan and the limits under each of these options Personal Accident Cover Coverage under this option is available on Individual and Family Basis. Min Age at Entry – 5 Years, Max Age at Entry 65 Years. Relationships Covered - Self, Lawfully Wedded Spouse/Live-in Partner, Dependent Children, Depen- dent Parents/Parent in laws Individual Benefit Amount - ₹10L, ₹15L, ₹20L, ₹25L, ₹30L, ₹40L, ₹50L, ₹1Cr, ₹2Cr, ₹3Cr Note: i. Claims under Accidental Death, Permanent Total Disablement, and Permanent Partial Disablement shall be payable only in respect of accident occurring within India. Family Cover Benefit Amount Eligibility Optional Covers Title Description Benefits at a glance Scope of Cover Accidental Death (AD) Permanent Partial Disablement (PTD) Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) % of PA Cover 100% of the Personal Accident Cover Benefit Amount. 200% of Benefit Amount (if Death/PTD) occurs due to an Accident while travelling as a fare paying passenger on a common carrier. % of Personal Accident Benefit Amount. (as defined in the Grid) Earning Member Non- earning Spouse/Live-in Partner 60% of the Benefit Amount of Earning member 30% of the Benefit Amount, max up to ₹30Lacs Dependent Children /Parents/Parents -in-Laws As per Beneﬁt Amount Opted Age wise 18-45 46- 60 Max 20 times of the Gainful Annual Income Max 10 times of the Gainful Annual Income >60 above Eligibility of Beneﬁt Amount will be up to a maximum times of Annual Income of the Proposer or Earning member to be Insured. (as detailed below) To enjoy benefits right from the start with Sarvah Param Digital Policy eServicing Claims SADA SECURE RAHO! Scan the QR code and download the myManipalCigna app PC_41_RW_3714_MCHI SARVAH Accordion_Param_12x20