FAMILY SHIELD FAMILY SHIELD C O V E R S M OR E TO PROTE CT M O R E Comprehensive. Flexible. Unique. NO.1 PRIORITY. THE KIND OF HELPING HAND YOU'D LIKE TO PROTECT YOUR Keeping the smiles on and protecting your family - your No. 1 priority - is always on your mind. Naturally, you want the best possible solution that suits your needs. With Family Shield, find everything you have been looking for in a health policy - wide coverage, flexibility to choose what you need, comprehensive Personal Accident benefits and Specific Infectious disease benefits. ELIGIBILITY Anyone who is between 3 months - 65 years of age can avail this policy. BENEFITS The benefits that this policy offers are divided under 3 broad categories. Each come with several other related and extended specific benefits. Specific Infectious Diseases Benefit Coverage against Speciﬁc Vector Borne Diseases, Rabies & Tetanus; Gastrointestinal Infections, Viral & Nervous Infections. Speciﬁc Vector Borne Disease Beneﬁt Includes Malaria, Dengue, Chikungunya, Kala Azar, Japanese Encephalitis, Filariasis & Zika Fever A) Hospitalization Beneﬁt Payment of sum insured on hospitalization of 48 hours Speciﬁc Viral Infections Beneﬁt Includes Viral Hepatitis (Hepatitis A, B, C and E), Measles, Mumps, Poliomyelitis, Avian Influenza and Swine Influenza A) Hospitalization Beneﬁt Hospitalization expenses arising out of insured person suffering from Specific Viral Infection s Speciﬁc Gastrointestinal Infections Beneﬁt Includes Acute Inflammatory Diarrhoea & Typhoid Fever A) Hospitalization Beneﬁt Hospitalization expenses arising out of Specific Gastrointestinal Infection s Speciﬁc Nervous System Infections Beneﬁt Includes Meningitis, Encephalitis, Creutzfeldt - Jakob Disease & Guillain - Barré Syndrome A) Hospitalization Beneﬁt Hospitalization expenses arising out of Specific Nervous System Infection s Rabies and Tetanus Beneﬁt A) Hospitalization Beneﬁt B) Death Beneﬁt Hospitalization expenses arising out of insured person suffering from Rabies and Tetanus due to accident Death due to Rabies and Tetanus due to accident Personal Accident Benefits Covers accidental hospitalization expenses, pre & post hospitalization expenses & diagnostic test expenses. Hospital Daily Cash Benefits Fixed daily beneﬁt in case of Hospitalization due to Accident or Illness. Hospital Daily Cash Beneﬁt Intensive Care Unit (ICU) Cash Beneﬁt Daily Fixed Payout for expenses arising out of Hospitalization Daily Fixed Payout for expenses arising out of Hospitalization in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) Temporary Total Disablement (TTD) Beneﬁt Permanent Partial Disablement (PPD) Beneﬁt TTD due to accidental injury (Weekly Payouts) PPD* due to accidental injury Children’s Education Grant Beneﬁt Adventure Sports Beneﬁt Education expenses of the insured’s dependent children on Death/PTD of the insured person Death/PTD arising while engaging in adventure sports Accidental Hospitalization Daily Cash Beneﬁt Accidental Hospitalization Expenses Reimbursement Beneﬁt Fixed Daily Payout on Hospitalization following an accidental injury Hospitalization expenses arising out of an accidental injury Loan Protection Beneﬁt Common Carrier Accident Beneﬁt Principal outstanding due to Death/PTD of the insured person Death/PTD arising due to accident of Common Carrier in which the insured was travelling Mysterious Disappearance Beneﬁt Assault Beneﬁt Disappearance for > 12 months in case of a Common Carrier** accident in which insured was travelling Injury due to an accident which is a violent crime or assault & requires the insured person to be hospitalized for more than 48 hours Catastrophic Evacuation Beneﬁt Reconstructive Surgery Beneﬁt Expenses incurred towards evacuation following a catastrophic natural calamity in which the insured person suffers an accidental injury Expenses related to a reconstructive surgery required for treatment of an accidental injury Physical Rehabilitation Beneﬁt Loss of Job Beneﬁt Loss of Job due to PTD / PPD Expenses incurred on physical rehab following an accidental injury Parental Care Beneﬁt Recovery Beneﬁt Death /PTD of the insured person (benefit payable to insured's dependent parents) Payout of a defined SI in case of Hospitalization of more than 5 days due to an accidental injury Orphan Beneﬁt Diagnostic Test Beneﬁt Lumpsum benefit to the insured’s dependent children on Death of both parents of the insured Reimbursement of expenses incurred on diagnostic tests necessitated due to an accident Last Rite Beneﬁt Lifestyle Support Beneﬁt Expenses arising out of transportation of mortal remains, funeral in case of death due to accident House, vehicle, office modification & prosthesis expenses arising out of PTD/PPD due to accidental injury Death Beneﬁt Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) Beneﬁt PTD due to accidental injury Death due to accidental injury * Severity based, defined in policy wordings ** Common Carrier in case of Mysterious Disappearance Benefit would exclude taxi, yacht, charter airline or a rented car EXCLUSIONS Personal Accident Benefits Any physical, medical or mental condition or treatment or service that is specifically excluded in the Policy Certificate under special conditions. 1. Any hospitalization during the waiting period as specified in the Policy Certificate. 2. Any pre-existing disease will be excluded/restricted for 2 years from the policy commencement date (only applicable for Hospital Daily Cash Benefit). 3. Any injury/illness occurring while working in underground mines/explosives magazines/involving electrical installation with high-tension supply/as jockeys or circus personnel. 4. Any injury that has occurred before the policy commencement date whether or not it has been treated or medical advice has been/not been sought for it. 5. Breach of law or while being involved in any unlawful activity. 6. Repatriation in case of Permanent Disability Beneﬁt Counseling Beneﬁt Expenses arising out of transportation of the insured person in case of PTD due to accident Expenses incurred for the insured person or the nominee on professional counselling due to PTD / Death of the insured person Air Ambulance Beneﬁt Accidental Pre & Post Hospitalization Expenses Beneﬁt Expenses for Air Ambulance services due to accidental injury Pre and Post Hospitalization Expenses arising out of an accidental injury which requires Hospitalization Broken Bones Beneﬁt Comatose Beneﬁt Expenses incurred due to fracture(s)* suffered due to accidental injury Accidental injury which results in the insured person being in a state of coma within 30 days from the date of accident Burns Beneﬁt Compassionate Visit Beneﬁt Second and third degree burns* Expenses incurred for travel of immediate family member to the place of hospitalization of the insured in case of Death/PTD/Broken Bones (>50%) of the insured Ambulance Charges Beneﬁt Skill Development Beneﬁt In case of Death/PTD/PPD additional payout to nominee/insured towards enrolment in any skill development course Expenses for Road Ambulance services due to accidental injury Chauffeur Cash Beneﬁt Home Tuition Beneﬁt Daily payout for availing Home Tuition in case of accidental injury to covered dependent child (covered under the policy) Expenses incurred towards hire of chauffeur on account of a temporary disability arising out of an accidental injury (as an extension to TTD coverage) On Duty Enhanced Beneﬁt Major Surgery Beneﬁt Payment of expenses related to a major surgery required for treatment of an accidental injury Additional coverage for On Duty Accidental Death / PTD Outstanding Bills Payment Beneﬁt Payment of outstanding insurance, electricity, telephone bills following Death /PTD due to accidental injury * Severity based, defined in policy wordings CLAIM PROCESS Intimate/register the claim by calling 18002666 (24x7 toll-free helpline number) & in writing at ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited, ICICI Bank Tower, Plot No. 12, Financial District, Nanakram Guda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh- 500032. 1. Submit the required documents (the specific list will be given in the policy document under each broad benefit) to the processing team immediately and if not, definitely within 7 days of the incident for which the claim is being made, at: ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited, ICICI Bank Tower, Plot No. 12, Financial District, Nanakram Guda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh- 500032. 2. 7. Any injury sustained in line of duty while in army, navy, air force, paramilitary force, police or any other such institution. 8. Any injury/illness arising from intentional self-injury/suicide/attempted suicide. 9. Any injury/illness arising while under the influence of alcohol/intoxicating drugs/substance abuse of any kind. 10. Any medical expenses not incurred in a hospital. 11. The above is merely an indicative list. Please refer to the policy document for the full listing. WAITING PERIOD • Specific Infectious Disease Benefits: 30 Days • Hospital Daily Cash Benefits: 30 Days OTHER FEATURES • Renewal Discount of 5% • Family Discount of up to 7.5% • Policy term of up to 3 years with Long Term Discount In order to claim a benefit under this policy, you need to follow a very simple process: The expected time for this is 30 days from the day the last required document is submitted. In case of the loss sharing, deductible or franchise, as opted, will be applicable. War, invasion, act of foreign enemy hostilities or warlike operations (whether war be declared or not) or civil commotion or rebellion, revolution, insurrection, mutiny, arrests, detainments of all kinds and political gatherings, engaging in aviation other than as a passenger (fare paying or otherwise) in any licensed standard type of aircraft. RENEWAL The renewal premium must be paid on or before the policy expiry date and in no case later than 30 days (grace period) from the policy expiry date. A renewal discount of 5% shall be applicable on such cases. 1. Both Specific Infectious Disease Benefits & Hospital Daily Cash Benefits can be renewed except on grounds of fraud, moral hazard or misrepresentation or non-cooperation by the policyholder. 2. Waiting periods for Specific Infectious Disease Benefits & Hospital Daily Cash Benefits Section are not applicable for renewal cases. 3. The policy can be renewed or migrated, wherever applicable, under the then prevailing product or its nearest substitute (in case of withdrawal of the prevailing product) approved by IRDAI. 4. CANCELLATION a) The Insured may cancel this Policy by giving 15 days’ written notice and in such an event, the Company shall refund premium as per the premium refund grid. b) The Company may cancel the Policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation, non – disclosure of material facts, fraud by the Insured Person, by giving 15 days’ written notice. There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of mis – representation, non – disclosure of material facts or fraud. 1. • A refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical examination of the insured person and the stamp duty charges or • Call: 1800 2666 (24x7 toll-free number) • Email: customersupport@icicilombard.com • Where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised by the insured person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover or • Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period Please disclose all material information (including pre-existing diseases) before buying the policy. 2. For a smooth claim disbursement process, please submit all documents as required. 3. You shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days (30 days if the Policy is sold through distance marketing) from date of receipt of the policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not acceptable. lf the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to: THINGS TO REMEMBER For any details/grievances regarding the policy, you can always reach out to us through/at: ASSISTANCE FAMILY SHIELD FAMILY SHIELD C O V E R S M OR E TO PROTE CT M O R E Comprehensive. Flexible. Unique. Disclaimer: Statutory Warning: Prohibition of Rebates (Under Section 41 of Insurance Act 1938). No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly as an inducement to any person to take out or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property, in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the Policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a Policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the Insurer. Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this section shall be liable for a penalty which may extend to Ten Lakh Rupees.ICICI trade logo displayed above belongs to ICICI Bank and is used by ICICI Lombard GIC Ltd. under license and Lombard logo belongs to ICICI Lombard GIC Ltd. Registered Office: ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Near Siddhivinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, Mumbai – 400 025. IRDA Reg. No. 115. Toll Free No. 1800 2666. Fax No. 02261961323.CIN L67200MH2000PLC129408. Product name: Family Shield UIN: ICIHLIP21387V022021. Website: www.icicilombard.com. Email: customersupport@icicilombard.com ADV/10625.