Presenting Internal Training and circulation  Coverage Options upto Rs.1 Cr  1% of SI coverage under  Double SI payout under  Double SI payout under  Accidental Hospitalization Coverage TEMORARY TOTAL DISABLEMENT PERMANENT PARTIAL DISABLEMNET PERMANENT TOTAL DISABLEMET Internal Training and circulation PRODUCT HIGHLIGHTS Sum Insured 30L 50L 1Cr Accidental Death 100% of Sum Insured Permanent Total Disablement(PTD) Upto PTD SI as per PTD Table Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) Improvement* Additional amount Upto PTD SI as per PTD Table Permanent Partial Disablement (PPD) Upto PPD SI as per PPD Table Permanent Partial Disablement (PPD) Improvement* Additional amount Upto PPD SI as per PPD Table Temporary Total Disablement Plus* 1% of SI per week, maximum 100 weeks, maximum up to 50 lac Fractures Upto Rs. 1lac as per Fracture Table Upto Rs. 2lac as per Fracture Table Upto Rs. 3lac as per Fracture Table Child Education 10% of Sum Insured 10% of Sum Insured 10% of Sum Insured Major Diagnostic Tests Up to Rs. 15,000 Up to Rs. 25,000 Up to Rs. 50,000 Disappearance 100% of SI 100% of SI 100% of SI Mobility cover Up to Rs. 15,000 Up to Rs. 25,000 Up to Rs. 50,000 Burns Upto Rs. 10,00,000 as per Table Upto Rs. 20,00,000 as per Table Upto Rs. 25,00,000 as per Table Domestic Road Ambulance N.A Up to Rs. 5,000 Up to Rs. 5,000 Nursing Care N.A Rs. 1000 per day, Max 15 days per Claim Rs.1500 per day, Max 15 days per Claim Reconstructive Surgery N.A Up to Rs. 10,00,000 Up to Rs. 20,00,000 Repatriation of Mortal Remains N.A Lower of 2% of the SI or Rs 1L. Lower of 2% of the SI or Rs 1lac Accidental Hospitalization* Upto 3lac Upto 5L Upto 5lac Loyalty Benefit 5% of the SI every renewal; Max. up to 50% of SI. Applicable on Accidental Death & PTD Sales offering have be prepared using PTD Improvement, PPD Improvement TTD Plus & Accidental Hospitalization are optional benefits Internal Training and circulation PLAN DETAILS Minimum Entry Age 18 Years Maximum Entry Age 64 years Maximum Renewal Age Lifelong Relationship Covered Self ( Proposer has to be Insured) Cover Type Individual Policy Tenure (in Years) 1 / 2 / 3 Internal Training and circulation BOUNDRY CONDITION Age of Insured 30L 50L 100L 18 Years to 64 Years 7575 13625 25451 PREMIUM Note :Premium is in INR and is inclusive of 18% GST Internal Training and circulation SOURCING GUIDELINES Internal Training and circulation AGE OF INSURED OCCUPATION INCOME MULTIPLIER 0-64 Years Salaried Person 20 times Gross Income Person with Business Income 25 times Net Income Person with Passive Income ( e.g. Pensioners, Person with source of Income from rents, Interest or Investments) 10 times Net Income Internal Training and circulation INCOME MULTIPLIER GUIDELINES NON-SOURCING LOCATIONS District State District State District State East Godavari Andhra Pradesh Jhajjar HARYANA Chittorgarh Rajasthan Guntur Andhra Pradesh Hisar HARYANA Alwar Rajasthan Krishna Andhra Pradesh Fatehabad HARYANA Jalor Rajasthan Visakhapatnam Andhra Pradesh Sirsa HARYANA Dausa Rajasthan West Godavari Andhra Pradesh Jind HARYANA JALORE RAJASTHAN Gandhi Nagar Gujarat Bhiwani HARYANA ayodhya Uttar Pradesh Kheda Gujarat Sonipat HARYANA Budaun Uttar Pradesh Mahesana Gujarat Karnal HARYANA Jyotiba Phule nagar Uttar Pradesh GANDHINAGAR GUJARAT Panipat HARYANA Sitapur Uttar Pradesh Mahesana, Gujarat GUJARAT Ambala HARYANA Gonda Uttar Pradesh mahesana gujarat Yamuna Nagar HARYANA Kanpur Nagar Uttar Pradesh Sabarkantha Gujarat Panchkula HARYANA Kanpur Dehat Uttar Pradesh Vadodara Gujarat Kaithal HARYANA Birbhum West Bengal SABAR KANTHA GUJARAT Kurukshetra HARYANA sabarkantha gujarat Dhanbad Jharkhand Faridabad HARYANA Mandya Karnataka Mahendragarh HARYANA Mandsaur Madhya Pradesh Rewari HARYANA Thane Maharashtra Rohtak HARYANA Ganjam Orissa Ajmer Rajasthan Amritsar Punjab Bhilwara Rajasthan Tarn Taran PUNJAB Internal Training and circulation Financial Documents required for more than Rs. 1 cr Sum Insured are Last 3 years ITR filed including computation of Income In case of Business ,the Business P&L audited statement Net-worth Statement NON-Exhaustive Underwriting Caution List  People working in Mines & Oil and Gas Industry  Crew Employed In Ships (Merchant Navy when in Duty)  Labourers working in the Construction Industry or Daily wagers  Professional Sports Persons or Professional Drivers  People Associated with Racing & Adventure Sports  Armed forces ( Army, Navy, Air force including armed guards) or People working with Explosives and Firecrackers  Chemical Industry Workers  Glass workers including Workers working in Glass Furnaces or Furnace Operators  People working Underground or at heights.  Farmers, Gardner's Internal Training and circulation SOURCING GUIDELINES Weekly Compensation amount settled will be 1% of SI. Customer will have to submit proof of Temporary Total disablement due to Accident Weekly compensation is payable for Max 100 weeks. Total amount paid under Temporary Total Disablement Plus will not exceed 50L Internal Training and circulation TEMPORARY TOTAL DISABLEMENT CLAIM SETTLEMENT BENEFITS EXPLAINED Internal Training and circulation Sr. No. Insured Events Amount payable = % of the Sum Insured applicable under ‘Permanent Total Disablement’ I Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of both eyes, or of the actual loss by physical separation of two entire hands or two entire feet, or one entire hand and one entire foot, or the total and irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye and loss by physical separation of one entire hand or one entire foot 100% II Total and irrecoverable loss of (a) use of two hands or two feet; or (b) one hand and one foot; or (c) sight of one eye and use of one hand or one foot 100% III Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye, or of the actual loss by physical separation of one entire hand or one entire foot 50% IV Total and irrecoverable loss of use of a hand or a foot without physical separation 50% V Paraplegia or Quadriplegia or Hemiplegia 100% Note:  For the purpose of Sr. No. I to IV above, physical separation of a hand or foot shall mean separation of the hand at or above the wrist, and of the foot at or above the ankle.  Hemiplegia means complete and irrecoverable paralysis of the arm, leg, and trunk on the same side of the body;  Paraplegia means complete and irrecoverable paralysis of the whole of the lower half of the body (below waist) including both the legs;  Quadriplegia means complete and irrecoverable paralysis of all four limbs. Internal Training and circulation PERMANENT TOTAL DISABLEMENT (PTD) Sr. No. Insured Events Amount payable = % of the Sum Insured applicable under ‘Permanent Partial Disablement’ I Total and irrecoverable loss of hearing in: - a) Both ears 75% a) One ear 20% II Loss of toes a) All 20% a) Both phalanges of great toes bilateral 5% a) Both phalanges of one great toe 2% a) Both phalanges of other than great toes for each toe 1% III Loss of four fingers and thumb of one hand 40% IV Loss of four fingers of one hand 35% V Loss of thumb a) both phalanges 25% a) one phalanx 10% VI Loss of index finger a) three phalanges 10% a) two phalanges 8% a) One phalanx 4% Note :For the purpose of Insured Events II to X, loss means either actual physical separation or total and irrecoverable loss only. Internal Training and circulation PERMANENT PARTIAL DISABLEMENT (PPD) Sr. No. Insured Events Amount payable = % of the Sum Insured applicable under ‘Permanent Partial Disablement’ VII Loss of middle finger a) three phalanges 6% a) two phalanges 4% a) One phalanx 2% VIII Loss of ring finger a) three phalanges 5% a) two phalanges 3% a) One phalanx 2% IX Loss of little finger a) three phalanges 4% a) two phalanges 3% a) One phalanx 2% X Loss of metacarpus first or second 3% third, fourth or fifth 2% Note :For the purpose of Insured Events II to X, loss means either actual physical separation or total and irrecoverable loss only. Internal Training and circulation Sr. No. Description of Extent of Burn Injury Amount payable = % of the Coverage amount specified against ‘Burns’ I Third degree burns of 30% or more of the total body surface area 100% II Second degree burns of 30% or more of the total body surface area 50% III Third degree burns of 20% or more, but less than 30% of the total body surface area 80% IV Second degree burns of 20% or more, but less than 30% of the total body surface area 40% V Third degree burns of 10% or more, but less than 20% of the total body surface area 40% VI Second degree burns of 10% or more, but less than 20% of the total body surface area 20% VII Third degree burns of 5% or more, but less than 10% of the total body surface area 20% VIII Second degree burns of 5% or more, but less than 10% of the total body surface area 10% Note : In case an Injury results in more than one of the ‘Descriptions of Extent of Burn Injury’ above, then the Company’s maximum liability shall not exceed the Sum Insured Internal Training and circulation BURNS Sr. No. Description of Fracture Amount payable = % of the Sum Insured specified ‘Fractures’ I Hip or Pelvis (excluding thigh or coccyx): Multiple fractures – at least one Compound Fracture and one Complete Fracture 100% II Hip or Pelvis (excluding thigh or coccyx) - All other Compound Fractures 50% III Thigh or Heel: Multiple fractures – at least one Compound Fracture and one Complete Fracture 100% IV Thigh or Heel: Multiple fractures – at least one Complete Fracture 50% V Lower leg, skull, clavicle, ankle, elbows, upper or lower arm (including wrist but excluding Colles-type fractures): Multiple Fractures – at least one Compound Fracture and one Complete Fracture 100% VI Lower leg, skull, clavicle, ankle, elbows, upper or lower arm (including wrist but excluding Colles-type fractures) :All other Compound Fractures 30% VII Colles type fracture of the lower arm – If Compound Fracture 100% VIII Colles type fracture of the lower arm – If Complete Fracture 50% Internal Training and circulation FRACTURES The amount under this benefit is payable, if customer meets with an accident which results into his Death or renders him Permanent Total Disablement The Amount paid is over and above the amount received under AD/PTD  The amount is payable if “Child” (natural or legally adopted), is : Financially dependent on the Customer Does not have his independent sources of income; and Has not attained 25 years of Age. Note : Guardians have to submit a valid document establishing the Age of child and relationship between the child and the customer at the time of claim. Internal Training and circulation CHILD EDUCATION Company will Reimberse expenses incurred for carrying out any major diagnostic tests like CT Scan/ MRI etc.. Maximum reimbersement is lower of Actual expenses or an amount as specified in the Policy Certificate The amount paid is over and above the amount paid under the AD/PTD benefit Diagnostic tests to undertaken on the written advice of a Medical Practitioner Diagnostic tests are conducted within 3 months from the date of Accident Original Bills need to be submitted for re-imbersement Internal Training and circulation MAJOR DIAGNOSTIC TESTS The Company will pay the customer towards the Reasonable and Customary Charges necessarily incurred by the Customer, for procuring Medically Necessary prosthetic devices, orthopaedic braces and durable medical equipment which fulfils the’ Customers basic medical needs consequent to an Injury. The company will pay actual amount incurred or the amount specified in the Policy Certificate against this Benefit, whichever is lower, Internal Training and circulation MOBILITY COVER The Company will pay the Policyholder for the expenses incurred for a maximum of 15 days post discharge from Hospital for the medical services of a Qualified Nurse at the Insured Person’s residence. - Nursing CARE benefit is payable if - Medical Practitioner certifies the necessity of Qualified Nurse services - Qualified Nurse should be hired for the purpose of providing care and convenience to the Insured Person to facilitate his activities of daily living - Qualified Nurse is to be hired within 1 week of discharge from hospital Internal Training and circulation NURSING CARE  In case due to an Accident a customer needs to undergo reconstructive surgery , he is eligible for compensation of Medical expenses incurred for the same Amount paid will be over and above the amount paid under PTD/PPD The reconstructive surgery is required to restore the natural function or appearance Has to be carried with written Medical Advice of a Medical Practitioner; Has to be carried out within 30 days from the date of Accident Internal Training and circulation RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY In case a customer dies due to an accident outside his city of residence, the company shall pay the expenses for the transportation of customer’s body from the place of death to the city of last known address of the customer Amount paid is over and above the amount paid under AD benefit Internal Training and circulation REPATRIATION OF MORTAL REMAINS The Company will enhance the Coverage amount of AD & PTD of last Policy Year by flat 5% of the Sum Insured on a cumulative basis as a Loyalty Bonus on Renewal The accrued Loyalty Bonus shall not exceed 50% of the Sum Insured. The entire Loyalty Bonus will be forfeited if the Policy is not continued /renewed. If Sum Insured under the Policy is increased at the time of renewal, then the applicable Loyalty Bonus shall also be increased in proportion to the Sum Insured. Internal Training and circulation LOYALTY BENEFIT If an Insured Person suffers an Injury during the Policy Period that requires: In-patient Care - company will indemnify up to the amount specified, for the Medical Expenses incurred on Hospitalization, provided that the Medically Necessary Hospitalization was on the written advice of a Medical Practitioner. Day Care Treatment – Company will indemnify up to the amount specified, for the Medical Expenses incurred on such Day Care Treatment, provided that the Medically Necessary treatment was taken on the written advice of a Medical Practitioner. Internal Training and circulation ACCIDENTAL HOSPITALIZATION EXPENSES Internal Training and circulation