Comprehensive Personal Accident Cover with TTD plus Get weekly coverage upto 1% of Sum Insured incase of Temporary Total Disablement* *Optional Cover is available on payment of additional premium. ^The Company Was Awarded ‘Best Claim Settlement Company of The Year’ Award At The 9th Annual India Insurance Summit & Awards 2025, in March 2025 Some things are beyond our control You work hard to fulﬁl your responsibilities and give your family the best that life has to oﬀer. You make plans.... for your children’s aspirations, your spouse’s dreams, your parents’ comfort, and most importantly, your own peace of mind. However, the journey of life is not always smooth and some things cannot be planned for – such as an unfortunate accident, which can impact you physically, emotionally and ﬁnancially. All the planning you may have done cannot prepare you for such an event and the subsequent consequences. A sudden accident can leave you bedridden and result in absence from work, temporarily or permanently. This can in turn aﬀect your current and future ﬁnances by draining your income, ruining the plans you may have had for your loved ones. As you can see, when you suﬀer an accident, life can turn upside down within moments. Not just yours, but your family’s as well. That’s why you need for your today and tomorrow. Stay in control with At Care Health Insurance, we believe that health and happiness go hand-in-hand. That’s why we bring you - A Personal Accident Cover that directly addresses every concern which can arise as a result of a serious accident. is truly comprehensive from a broad range of features, optional beneﬁts, hassle-free procedures and thoughtful services, it ensures that the road to recovery is worry-free, making getting back to good health your priority. Pays a lumpsum amount of 100% of the Sum Insured to the nominat- ed family member in the event of a tragic loss. Permanent Partial Disablement (PPD) Pays a pre-deﬁned percentage of the sum insured, based on severity of loss due to the accident. For a detailed list of payout percentages under PTD & PPD, please log on to www.careinsurance.com. Security & Stability when you need it Accidental Death Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) Pays between 50 to 100 percent of the sum insured, based on severity of injury and loss due to the accident. Fractures In the event of a fracture, Care Health will provide you coverage within the range of 30% to 100% of your sum insured in order to help you recover without any hassles. Burns If you suﬀer from burns due to accident, get coverage of sum insured in the range 10% to 100% depending on the degree of burn. For a detailed list of payout percentages under Fractures & Burns please log on to www.careinsurance.com. Reconstructive Surgery Coverage for expenses pertaining to a surgery, advised by your medical practitioner in case of an accident. A more Today & Tomorrow Child Education In the event of an accident resulting in insured’s demise or PTD, we’ll take care of child’s education, ensuring that their future is not compromised. Optional Covers Nursing Care With us, you only need to think about the best for yourself and your health. If your injury (PTD or PPD) requires the care of a Qualiﬁed Nurse, we will pay for the expenses incurred, if need for the same is prescribed by a medical practitioner. Major Diagnostics Tests In case injuries caused by an accident require you to undertake any diagnostic tests such as CT scan, MRI, etc. as advised by a Medical Practitioner, you can do so without a worry. Tests should be done within 3 months of occurance of injury. Domestic Road Ambulance If an accident related injury requires emergency medical evacuation, we’ll reimburse the ambulance expenses incurred. Accidental Hospitalization Expenses In case of hospitalization due to an accident, get comprehensive coverage of expenses ranging from room charges, nursing expenses, intensive care unit charges to surgeon's fee, doctor's fee, anesthesia, oxygen, operation theater charges, etc up to speciﬁed amount. Permanent Total Disablement Improvement Pays between 50 to 100 percent of the sum insured, based on severity of injury and loss due to the accident. This amount is over & above the amount received under Permanent Total Disablement. Optional Covers are available on payment of additional premium. For complete details on Optional Covers, please log on to www.careinsurance.com Policy Terms Minimun entry age 18 years Maximum entry age 64 years Renewal Lifelong Renewability, the policy can be renewed under the prevailing Health Insurance product or its nearest substitute approved. Age of proposer 18 years or above Policy Tenure 1, 2 or 3 years Acceptance of proposal is subject to underwriting approvals. Mobility Cover If an injury causes PTD and requires you to use prosthetic devices like artiﬁcial arms, legs or eyes, orthopaedic braces and medical equipment like wheelchairs or hospital beds, we will reimburse the expenses towards these. Disappearance In the event that an accident leaves the insured missing (forced landing, stranding, sinking, wrecking of a Common Carrier.) for more Temporary Total Disablement/ Temporary Total Disablement Plus When you suﬀer from an injury that would conﬁne you to the bed for a temporary basis your medical expenses as well your ﬁnancial concerns will be taken care oﬀ until you make a full recovery. Note: Either of Temporary Total Disablement or Temporary Total Disablement Plus optional cover can be opted but not both. Permanent Partial Disablement Improvement Pays a pre-deﬁned percentage of the sum insured, based on severity of loss due to the accident. This amount is over & above the amount received under Permanent Partial Disablement. than 1 year and the insured’s demise has been reasonably established, we will pay the sum insured to the nominee. Repatriation of Mortal Remains We will cover the amount required for transportation of mortal remains to the city of residence, in the event of a fatality. Loyalty Beneﬁt For each continuous and completed Policy Year, on subsequent renewal, We will enhance the Coverage amount of AD, PTD, PPD pertaining to last Policy Year by ﬂat 5% of the Sum Insured, on a cumulative basis. Plan Options Sum Insured (in `)# Beneﬁts Accidental Death Permanent Total Disablement Permanent Partial Disablement Temporary Total Disablement Plus^ Fractures Child Education Major Diagnostics Tests Disappearance Mobility Cover Burns Domestic Road Ambulance Nursing Care Reconstructive Surgery Repatriation of Mortal Remains Loyalty Beneﬁt 30 lac 100 % of Sum Insured Upto SI, as per table Upto SI, as per table Weekly coverage upto 1% of Sum Insured incase of TTD Up to `1,00,000 as per table 10% of Sum Insured Up to `15,000 100% of Sum Insured Up to `15,000 Up to `10,00,000 as per table No No No No Per policy year 5% increase in SI up to max. 50% of SI 50/ 100lac 100 % of Sum Insured Upto SI, as per table Upto SI, as per table Weekly coverage upto 1% of Sum Insured incase of TTD, up to max. `50Lac Up to `2,00,000 as per table 10% of Sum Insured Up to `25,000 100% of Sum Insured Up to `25,000 Up to `20,00,000 as per table Up to `5,000 `1,000 per day, up to max. 15 days per claim Up to `10,00,000 2% of the Sum Insured or Max. `1,00,000; whichever is lower Per policy year 5% increase in SI up to max. 50% of SI # Other Plans/Sum Insured are also available. For complete details please refere to prospectus. ^This is an optional beneﬁt available on payment of additional premium. Come join in anytime Be a part of the Care family and continue to get uninterrupted coverage with no compromises at all. Get quality service and enhanced product features. File your claims directly with us We believe in the old adage, “The proof of the pudding is in the eating.” So we back up our promise with an enduringly simple claims procedure, which involves just you and us. • In case of accidental hospitalisation, all you have to do is present the Care Health Card at our network of more than 21,700+ healthcare providers pan India and avail cashless service. As an alternate, you can also ﬁle for re-imbursement of expenses. • In case of all other claims, reimburse your expenses by simply notifying us using claim genie portal. Call us directly, send us the speciﬁed documents and we’ll process your claim. Since you interact directly with us, we can be doubly sure that you are satisﬁed. And when you are satisﬁed, we feel satisﬁed too. We deliver on our promises. We take pride in oﬀering hassle-free clearance and speedy settlements. Be sure with Longer Policy Term The security of your health and resultant happiness should be your prerogative for life. To make the process of renewing your health insurance more convenient, choose a policy with a term of one, two or three years. What’s more! Avail a discount on your premium if you opt for a longer policy term. Review your decision We have your best interests at heart and at the same time recognise that you know your needs best. Hence, after purchasing the policy, if you ﬁnd it unsuitable, you can cancel and return the policy to us. Our policies come with a free-look period of 30 days from the date of receipt of policy. Care Health Insurance is a specialized health insurer oﬀering products in the retail segment for Health Insurance, Top-up Coverage, Personal Accident, Maternity, International Travel Insurance and Critical Illness along with Group Health Insurance and Group Personal Accident Insurance for Corporates, Micro Insurance Products for the Rural Market and a Comprehensive Set of Wellness Services. With its operating philosophy being based on the principal tenet of ‘consumer-centricity’, the company has consistently invested in the eﬀective application of technology to deliver excellence in customer servicing, product innovation and value-for-money services. Apart from numerous awards since inception, in March 2025, Care Health Insurance (CHI) was awarded ‘Best Claim Settlement Company of the Year’ at the 9th Annual India Insurance Summit & Awards 2025; in December 2024 CHI was conferred the ‘Overall Achievement Award’ (SAHI category) at the ASSOCHAM 16th Global Insurance Summit & Awards, and ‘Smart Insurer’ and ‘Sales Champion’ awards in Health Insurance category at the 11th ET Now Insurance Summit & Awards 2024. The company was also awarded ‘Best Health Insurance Plan – Care Plus at the Global Financial Planner’s Summit 2024 held in October’24. Care Health Insurance Limited What is not covered? • Any pre-existing injury or disability; • Any intentional self-inﬂicted injury, suicide or attempted suicide, sexually transmitted conditions, mental or nervous conditions, insanity, disorder or depression. • The Insured Person ﬂying in an aircraft other than as a fare paying passenger in a Scheduled Airline. • The Insured Person engaging in sporting activities in so far as they involve the training for or participation in competitions of professional sports, unless declared beforehand and agreed by the Company in writing subject to additional premium being received and incorporated accordingly in the Policy. • Insured Person serving in any branch of the military, navy or air-force or any branch of armed Forces or any paramilitary forces. • Any claim related to Hazardous Activities. • Persons whilst working with in underground mines, explosives, press, activities like racing on wheels or horseback, winter sports, canoeing involving white water rapids, any bodily contact sport. • Claim arising out of mental illness, psychiatric or psychological disorders. For a detailed set of exclusions, please log on to www.careinsurance.com. Ver:June/25/AP Disclaimer: This is only summary of selective features of product . For more details on risk factors, terms and conditions please read sales brochure carefully before concluding a sale. Please seek the advice of your insurance advisor if you require any further information or clarification. Insurance is a subject matter of solicitation. CIN:U66000DL2007PLC161503 UAN:25066775 UIN:CHIPAIP25046V042425 is a trademark of Care Health Insurance Limited. IRDAI Registration Number - 148 Care Health Insurance Limited Registered Office: 5th Floor, 19 Chawla House, Nehru Place, New Delhi-110019 Correspondence Office: Vipul Tech Square, Tower C, 3rd Floor, Golf Course Road, Sector-43, Gurugram-122009 (Haryana) Website: www.careinsurance.com www.careinsurance.com Quick quote & buy Online renewals Customer support Claim centre REACH US @ WhatsApp - 8860402452 Care Health - Customer App: https://careinsurance.app.link/3QB1xwRrNPb www.careinsurance.com/self-help-portal.html Submit Your Queries/Requests: www.careinsurance.com/contact-us.html           