Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 Senior First Policy Document 1. Preamble This Policy covers Allopathic and AYUSH treatments taken in India ONLY. Expense incurred outside the policy period will NOT be covered. Unutilized Sum Insured will expire at the end of policy year. All applicable benefits and details are mentioned in your Policy Schedule. 2. Definitions 2.1. Standard Definitions I. Accident or Accidental means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent means. II. AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical / surgical / para-surgical treatment procedures and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following: a. Central or state government AYUSH Hospital; or b. Teaching Hospital attached to AYUSH college recognized by the Central Government / Central Council of Indian Medicine / Central Council of Homeopathy; or c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcare facility of any recognized system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable and is under the supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with all the following criterion: i. Having at least five in-patient beds; ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock; iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out; iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company’s authorized representative. AYUSH Hospitals referred above shall also obtain either pre-entry level certificate (or higher level of certificate) issued by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) or State Level Certificate (or higher level of certificate) under National Quality Assurance Standards (NQAS), issued by National Health Systems Resources Centre (NHSRC). III. Cashless Facility means a facility extended by the insurer to the insured where the payments, of the costs of treatment undergone by the insured in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, are directly made to the network provider by the insurer to the extent pre-authorization is approved. IV. Congenital Anomaly means a condition which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with reference to form, structure or position. a. Internal Congenital Anomaly: Congenital Anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the body. b. External Congenital Anomaly: Congenital Anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the body. V. Cumulative Bonus means any increase or addition in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer without an associated increase in premium. VI. Day Care Centre means any institution established for Day Care Treatment of Illness and/or Injuries or a medical set-up with a Hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified Medical Practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criterion as under: Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 a. has Qualified Nursing staff under its employment; b. has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge; c. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where Surgical Procedures are carried out; d. maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance company’s authorized personnel. VII. Dental Treatment means a treatment related to teeth or structures supporting teeth including examinations, fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and Surgery. VIII. Domiciliary Hospitalization means medical treatment for an Illness/disease/Injury which in the normal course would require care and treatment at a Hospital but is actually taken while confined at home under any of the following circumstances: a. the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a Hospital, or b. the patient takes treatment at home on account of non availability of room in a Hospital. IX. Grace Period means the specified period of time, immediately following the premium due date during which premium payment can be made to renew or continue a policy in force without loss of continuity benefits pertaining to waiting periods and coverage of pre-existing diseases. Coverage need not be available during the period for which no premium is received. The grace period for payment of the premium for all types of insurance policies shall be: fifteen days where premium payment mode is monthly and thirty days in all other cases. Provided the insurers shall offer coverage during the grace period, if the premium is paid in instalments during the policy period. X. Hospital means any institution established for Inpatient Care and Day Care Treatment of Illness and / or Injuries and which has been registered as a Hospital with the local authorities under the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the enactments specified under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all minimum criteria as under: a. has Qualified Nursing staff under its employment round the clock; b. has at least 10 Inpatient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 15 Inpatient beds in all other places; c. has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge round the clock; d. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where Surgical Procedures are carried out; e. maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the Insurance company’s authorized personnel. XI. Hospitalization means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 consecutive ‘In-patient Care’ hours except for specified procedures/treatments, where such admission could be for a period of less than 24 consecutive hours. XII. ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services provided to any ICU patient including monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges. XIII. Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal physiological function and requires medical treatment. a. Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering the disease/ illness/ injury which leads to full recovery b. Chronic condition - A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics: i. it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups, and /or tests ii. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 iii. it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be specially trained to cope with it iv. it continues indefinitely v. it recurs or is likely to recur XIV. Injury means Accidental physical bodily harm excluding Illness or disease solely and directly caused by external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner. XV. Inpatient Care means treatment for which the Insured Person has to stay in a Hospital for more than 24 hours for a covered event. XVI. Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a Hospital which is under the constant supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or require life support facilities and where the level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and other wards. XVII. Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issuance of any prescription or follow-up prescription. XVIII. Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually incurred for medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been payable if the Insured Person had not been insured and no more than other Hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have charged for the same medical treatment. XIX. Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of any State or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of his licence. XX. Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in Hospital or part of a stay in Hospital which: i. is required for the medical management of the Illness or Injury suffered by the insured; ii. must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical care in scope, duration, or intensity; iii. must have been prescribed by a Medical Practitioner; iv. must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or by the medical community in India. XXI. Network Provider means Hospital enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an insured by a Cashless Facility. XXII. Non-Network Provider means any Hospital, Day Care Centre or other provider that is not part of the network. XXIII. Notification of Claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the recognized modes of communication. XXIV. OPD Treatment means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic / Hospital or associated facility like a consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured is not admitted as a day care or In-patient. XXV. Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or disease a. That is/are diagnosed by a physician not more than 36 months prior to the date of commencement of the policy issued by the insurer, or b. For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician, not more than 36 months prior to the date of commencement of the policy Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 XXVI. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during pre-defined number of days preceding the hospitalization of the Insured Person, provided that: a. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s Hospitalization was required, and b. The Inpatient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company. XXVII. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during pre-defined number of days immediately after the Insured Person is discharged from the Hospital, provided that: a. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s Hospitalization was required, and b. The Inpatient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company. XXVIII. Portability means a facility provided to the health insurance policyholders (including all members under family cover), to transfer the credits gained for, pre-existing disease and specific waiting periods from one insurer to another. XXIX. Qualified Nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the Nursing Council of any state in India. XXX. Reasonable and Customary Charges means the charges for services or supplies, which are the standard charges for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of the Illness / Injury involved. XXXI. Reimbursement means settlement of claims paid directly by Us to the Policyholder/Insured Person. XXXII. Renewal means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a provision of Grace Period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-existing diseases, time bound exclusions and for all Waiting Periods. XXXIII. Room Rent means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and shall include the associated medical expenses. XXXIV. Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of an Illness or Injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief from suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a Hospital or Day Care Centre by a Medical Practitioner. XXXV. Specific Waiting period means a period up to 36 months from the commencement of a health insurance policy during which period specified diseases/treatments (except due to an accident) are not covered. On completion of the period, diseases/ treatments shall be covered provided the policy has been continuously renewed without any break. 2.2. Specific Definitions I. Age means age as on last birthday. II. Base Sum Insured means the amount stated in the Policy Schedule. III. Break in Policy means the period of gap that occurs at the end of the existing policy term/instalment premium due date, when the premium due for renewal on a given policy or instalment premium due is not paid on or before the premium renewal date or grace period. IV. Insured Event means any event specifically mentioned as covered under this Policy. V. Insured Person means person(s) named as insured persons in the Policy Schedule. VI. Policy means these terms and conditions, the Policy Schedule (as amended from time to time), Your statements in the Proposal and any endorsements attached by Us to the Policy from time to time. VII. Policy Period is the period between the inception date and the expiry date of the Policy as specified in the Policy Schedule or the date of cancellation of this Policy, whichever is earlier. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 VIII. Policy Year means the period of one year commencing on the date of commencement specified in the Policy Schedule or any anniversary thereof. IX. Service Provider means any person, organization, institution that has been empanelled with Us to provide services specified under the benefits to the Insured Person. X. Single Private Room means an air conditioned room in a Hospital where a single patient is accommodated and which has an attached toilet (lavatory and bath). Such room type shall be the most basic and the most economical of all accommodations available as a single occupancy room in that Hospital. XI. Sum Insured: In case of Individual Policy, Sum Insured means the total of the Base Sum Insured and No claim Bonus (if applicable) for that Insured Person. Our maximum, total and cumulative liability for all claims during the Policy Year in respect of the Insured Person will be Sum Insured and amount provided under ReAssure benefit. In case of Family Floater Policy, Sum Insured means the total of the Base Sum Insured and No claim Bonus (if applicable). Our maximum, total and cumulative liability for all claims during the Policy Year in respect of all Insured Persons taken together will be Sum Insured and amount provided under ReAssure benefit. The sequence of utilization of Sum Insured will be as below: i. Base Sum Insured followed by; ii. Accumulated No Claim Bonus (if applicable) followed by; iii. ReAssure benefit (if applicable) If the Policy Period is 2 years or 3 years, then the Sum Insured shall be applied separately for each Policy Year in the Policy Period. All claims paid (except for Health Check-up) will reduce the Sum Insured for the Policy Year in which the insured event has occurred. Any claim admitted under Pre & Post Hospitalization shall reduce the Sum Insured for the Policy Year in which Hospital admission claim has incurred. XII. Waiting Period means a time-bound exclusion period related to condition(s) specified in the Policy Schedule or the Policy which shall be served before a claim related to such condition(s) becomes admissible. XIII. We/Our/Us means Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited. XIV. You/Your/Policyholder means the person named in the Policy Schedule who has concluded this Policy with Us. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 3. Benefits covered under the policy DESCRIPTION (What we pay and what we DON’T) IMPORTANT TERMS (what it means) 3.1. Expenses to reach hospital (Ambulance) By road, maximum Rs. 2,000 & by air maximum Rs.2,50,000 per hospitalization. Applies ONLY when Hospital admission claim is paid. IMPORTANT: You MUST use a registered ambulance / air ambulance provider. Air ambulance is available only for Emergency care. 3.2. Expenses during hospitalization (Hospital admission) a. We will pay the expenses incurred by you on treatment (Naturally this excludes expenses not linked to treatment like food, beverage, toiletries and cosmetics) if you were: i. Admitted for 2 hours or more NOTE: minimum 24 hours admission in AYUSH Hospital MUST for AYUSH treatment coverage ii. You had Angiography, Dialysis (Hemo / Peritoneal), Radiotherapy or Chemotherapy for cancer NOTE: Admission in a hospital happens in what is called wards or rooms of various categories, ICUs, CCUs, NICU etc or in Day care. IMPORTANT: i. We will NOT pay, even if you were admitted, if there was no treatment and only investigations were done. Example: Admission only for investigations like MRI, CT Scan, Endoscopy, Colonoscopy etc. ii. We will NOT pay for Automation machine for peritoneal dialysis b. We pay for Modern treatments as specified below: 1. Uterine Artery Embo- lization and HIFU (High intensity focused ultra- sound) 2. Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection 3. Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser treatment or holmium laser treatment) 4. Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions 5. Balloon Sinuplasty 6. Oral Chemotherapy 7. Robotic surgeries 8. Stereotactic radio Surgeries 9. Deep Brain stimulation 10. Intra vitreal injections 11. Bronchical Thermoplasty 12. IONM - (Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring) NOTE: A limit of maximum Rs. 1,00,000 per claim will apply to all robotic surgeries, except for total radical prostatectomy, cardiac surgeries, partial nephrectomy and surgeries for malignancies. Def 1: Emergency care means management for an Illness or Injury which results in symptoms which occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a Medical Practitioner to prevent death or serious long term impairment of the Insured Person’s health. Def 2: AYUSH Treatment refers to the medical and / or hospitalization treatments given under Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Sidha and Homeopathy systems. Def 3: Day Care Treatment refers to medical treatment, and/or Surgical Procedure which is: a. undertaken under General or Local Anaesthesia in a Hospital/Day Care Centre in less than 24 hrs because of technological advancement, and b. which would have otherwise required a Hospitalization of more than 24 hours. Treatment normally taken on an out patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 3.3. Expenses before and after hospitalization (Pre & Post hospitalization) We will pay expenses incurred on consultations, medicines, diagnostic tests 60 days before date of admission and 180 days after date of discharge IF these are related to the condition for which hospital admission or domiciliary hospitalization claim is paid. 3.4. Treatment at home (Domiciliary Hospitalization) We will pay the expenses incurred by you on treatment at home only if: a. the treating doctor has given in writing that there was no room available for treatment at the hospital, or that the insured was not in a position to reach the hospital, and b. minimum 3 consecutive days of treatment was received by the Insured 3.5. Organ donor If you ever undergo an organ transplant, we will pay the hospitalization expenses of the donor for harvesting the organ ONLY when your Hospital admission claim is paid. 3.6. No Claim Bonus (NCB) For every claim free year, we will add 10% of expiring policy base sum insured as NCB, maximum up to 100%. NOTE: IMPORTANT: Below points apply for changes made within the same product. Change in product is called Migration in which you CAN NOT carry NCB. a. NCB applies the same way as the policy sum insured type. If policy is floater, NCB is floater & if policy is individual sum insured, NCB too is individual basis. b. Individual NCB can be carried to any policy with individual sum insured as long as sum insured is NOT reduced. c. If two or more policies merge into a floater policy, the lowest of the NCB among all policies will be carried to the new merged floater policy. d. In case You change individual sum insured policy to Floater, the lowest of the NCB of members in previous policy will be carried to floater policy. e. If Floater policy is converted to individual sum insured policy, NCB of previous policy will be given to each of previously insured member on individual basis as long as sum insured is NOT reduced. f. If any one reduces base sum insured, same percentage of NCB will be given as was the previous NCB of the previous base sum insured. Example: Base Sum Insured Accumulated NCB Base Sum Insured is reduced to 5 Lac Revised Base Sum Insured Revised Accumulated NCB 10 Lac 5 Lac (after 5 claim free years) 5 Lac 2.5 Lac Def 4: Migration means a facility provided to policyholders (including all members under family cover and group policies), to transfer the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and specific waiting periods from one health insurance policy to another with the same insurer. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 3.7. ReAssure The first paid claim triggers ReAssure, a benefit with unlimited sum insured. NOTE: Maximum amount ReAssure benefit pays for any single claim is up to base sum insured. Illustration: Base Sum Insured 1st paid Claim ReAs- sure benefit is trig- gered Bal- ance Base Sum Insured 2nd pay- able claim Claim amount paid Balance Base Sum Insured 3rd Payable claim Claim amount paid 10 Lac 7 Lac 3 Lac 12 Lac 12 Lac (3 Lac from base SI and 9 Lac from ReAs- sure Nil 11 Lac 10 Lac from Re- Assure 3.8. Health Checkup Available once every Policy Year, from day 1 of the policy, up to the amount as specified in Your Policy Schedule. You can choose any test(s) from the list specified below. Please note that the tests must be taken within the duration of 7 days. List of tests covered: Complete blood count Complete Physical Examination by Phy- sician Serum Electrolytes Urine Routine Post prandial/lunch blood sugar (PPBS / PLBS) HbA1C Erythrocyte Sedimenta- tion Rate (ESR) Uric Acid Thyroid profile (TSH) Fasting Blood Glucose Lipid Profile Liver Function Test (LFT) Electrocardiogram Kidney function test Treadmill test (TMT) S Cholesterol Serum Vitamin D Ultrasound test Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 4. Claim Cost Sharing DESCRIPTION (What we pay and what we DON’T) IMPORTANT TERMS (what it means) 4.1. Co-payment Co-payment once chosen CAN NOT be changed. It’s the percentage of admissible claim amount You would have to bear, Rest we will pay. The default co-payment in the product is 50% which You can modify to 40% or 30% or 20% at inception of the first policy. Note: a. Co-payment will NOT apply to Ambulance and Health Check-up benefits. b. You will have to bear additional 10% co-payment IF treatment is taken in higher room category than the eligible room category as specified in Your Policy Schedule Def 5: Co-payment means a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that the Policyholder/insured will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claim amount. A Co-payment does not reduce the Sum Insured. 4.2. Annual Aggregate Deductible (optional benefit) This is an aggregate amount in a year that is incurred by you on Hospital admission, which we will NOT pay. Once the total expense exceeds this amount, balance we will pay. This too, once chosen CAN NOT be changed. Note: a. Deductible amount borne by you should also be payable as per policy terms and conditions. b. Deductible will NOT apply to Health Check-up benefit. c. If Deductible is opted, then co-payment will NOT apply, except as specified in section 4.1 (b) for admission to higher than eligible category of room Def 6: Deductible means a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that the Insurer will not be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of indemnity policies and for a specified number of days/hours in case of hospital cash policies which will apply before any benefits are payable by the insurer. A deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured. 5. Exclusions 5.1. Standard Exclusions I. Pre-existing Diseases (Code–Excl01): a. Expenses related to the treatment of a Pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be excluded until the expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Policy. b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase. c. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Insurance Products) Regulations 2024, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. d. Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of 24 months for any Pre-existing Disease is subject to the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by Us. II. Specified disease/procedure waiting period (Code- Excl02) a. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Policy. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an Accident. b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase. c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-Existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or declared and accepted without a specific exclusion. e. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. f. List of specific diseases/procedures: i. Pancreatitis and stones in biliary and urinary system ii. Cataract, glaucoma and retinal detachment iii. Hyperplasia of prostate, hydrocele and spermatocele iv. Prolapse uterus and cervix, endometriosis, Fibroids, PCOD, hysterectomy (unless necessitated by Malignancy) v. Hemorrhoids, fissure or fistula or abscess of anal and rectal region vi. Hernia of all sites, vii. Osteoarthritis, joint replacement, osteoporosis, systemic connective tissue disorders, inflammatory polyarthropathies, Rheumatoid Arthritis, gout, intervertebral disc disorders, arthroscopic surgeries for ligament repair viii. Varicose veins of lower extremities ix. All internal or external benign or neoplasms/ tumours, cyst, sinus, polyp, nodules, mass or lump x. Ulcer, erosion and varices of gastro intestinal tract xi. Surgical treatment for diseases of middle ear and mastoid (including otitis media, cholesteatoma, perforation of tympanic membrane), Tonsils and adenoids, nasal septum and nasal sinuses. III. 30-day waiting period (Code- Excl03): a. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the event of granting higher Sum Insured subsequently. b. Expenses related to the treatment of any Illness within 30 days from the first Policy commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an Accident, provided the same are covered. c. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has continuous coverage for more than twelve months IV. Investigation & Evaluation (Code-Excl04) a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are excluded. b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment are excluded. V. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code-Excl05) Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also includes: a. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons. b. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs. VI. Obesity/ Weight Control (Code-Excl06) Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions: a. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor. b. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols. c. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and; d. Body Mass Index (BMI); Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 i. greater than or equal to 40 or ii. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss: 1. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 2. Coronary heart disease 3. Severe Sleep Apnea 4. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes VII. Change-of-Gender treatments (Code-Excl07) Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex. VIII. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery (Code-Excl08) Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner. IX. Hazardous or Adventure sports (Code-Excl09) Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional in hazardous or adventure sports, including but not limited to, para-jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving. X. Breach of law (Code-Excl10) Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured Person committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent. XI. Excluded Providers (Code-Excl11) Expenses incurred towards treatment in any Hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other provider specifically excluded by Us and disclosed in Our website / notified to the Policyholders are not admissible. However, in case of life threatening situations or following an Accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim. The complete list of excluded providers can be referred to on our website. XII. Treatment for, alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences thereof. (Code-Excl12) XIII. Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. (Code-Excl13) XIV. Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, including but not limited to vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless prescribed by a Medical Practitioner as part of Hospitalization claim or Day Care procedure (Code-Excl14) XV. Refractive Error (Code-Excl15) Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres. XVI. Unproven Treatments (Code-Excl16) Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to support their effectiveness. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 XVII. Sterility and Infertility (Code-Excl17) Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes: a. Any type of contraception, sterilization b. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced reproductive technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI c. Gestational Surrogacy d. Reversal of sterilization XVIII. Maternity Expenses (Code-Excl18) a. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during Hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy; b. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an Accident) and lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the Policy Period. 5.2. Specific Exclusions I. Personal Waiting Periods: Conditions specified for an Insured Person under Personal Waiting Period in the Policy Schedule will be subject to a Waiting Period of 24 months from the inception of the First Policy with Us. II. Charges related to a Hospital stay not expressly mentioned as being covered. This will include RMO charges, surcharges and service charges levied by the Hospital. III. Circumcision: Circumcision unless necessary for the treatment of a disease or necessitated by an Accident. IV. Conflict & Disaster: Treatment for any Injury or Illness resulting directly or indirectly from nuclear, radiological emissions, war or war like situations (whether war is declared or not), rebellion (act of armed resistance to an established government or leader), acts of terrorism. V. External Congenital Anomaly: Screening, counseling or treatment related to external Congenital Anomaly. VI. Dental/oral treatment: Treatment, procedures and preventive, diagnostic, restorative, cosmetic services related to disease, disorder and conditions related to natural teeth and gingiva except if required by an Insured Person while Hospitalized due to an Accident. VII. Hormone Replacement Therapy: Treatment for any condition / illness which requires hormone replacement therapy. VIII. Multifocal Lens and ambulatory devices such as walkers, crutches, splints, stockings of any kind and also any medical equipment which is subsequently used at home. IX. Sexually transmitted Infections & diseases (other than HIV / AIDS): Screening, prevention and treatment for sexually related infection or disease (other than HIV / AIDS). X. Sleep disorders: Treatment for any conditions related to disturbance of normal sleep patterns or behaviors. XI. Any treatment or medical services received outside the geographical limits of India. XII. Any expenses incurred on OPD treatment. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 XIII. Unrecognized Physician or Hospital: a. Treatment or Medical Advice provided by a Medical Practitioner not recognized by the Medical Council of India or by Central Council of Indian Medicine or by Central council of Homeopathy. b. Treatment provided by anyone with the same residence as an Insured Person or who is a member of the Insured Person’s immediate family or relatives. c. Treatment provided by Hospital or health facility that is not recognized by the relevant authorities in India. XIV. Treatment related to intentional self inflicted Injury or attempted suicide by any means. XV. Costs which are not Reasonable and Customary and treatments which are not Medically Necessary. XVI. Artificial life maintenance for the Insured Person who has been declared brain dead or in vegetative state as demonstrated by: a. Deep coma and unresponsiveness to all forms of stimulation; or b. Absent pupillary light reaction; or c. Absent oculovestibular and corneal reflexes; or d. Complete apnea. 6. General Terms and Clauses 6.1. Standard Terms and Clauses I. Free Look Period The Free Look Period shall be applicable on individual health insurance policies and not on renewals. The insured person shall be allowed free look period of thirty days from date of receipt of the policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy. If he/she is not satisfied with any of the terms and conditions , he/she has the option to cancel his/her policy. In the event the policyholder disagrees to any of the policy terms or conditions, or otherwise and has not made any claim, he/she shall have the option to retun the policy to the insurer for cancellation, stating the reasons for the same. Irrespective of the reasons mentioned, the policyholder shall be entitled to a refund of the premium paid subject only to a deduction of a proportionate risk premium for the period of cover and the expenses, if any, incurred by the insurer on medical examination of the proposer and stamp duty charges. II. Cancellation The policy holder may cancel his/her policy at any time during the term, by giving 7 days’ notice in writing. The insurer shall: a. Refund proportionate premium for unexpired policy period, if the term of the policy upto one year and there is no claim(s) made during the policy period. b. Refund premium for the unexpired policy period, in respect of policies with term more than 1 year and risk coverage for such policy years are not commenced. What it means? Free look is a 30 days period during which you can return back your policy, if you don’t like what you have purchased. You can cancel your policy whenever you wish. NOTE: We will NOT refund any premium if we have paid a claim. We will refund part of the premium depending on how many days your policy has been running for, if there is no claim. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 III. Renewal of Policy A health insurance policy shall be renewable except on grounds of established fraud or non-disclosure or misrepresentation by the insured. An insurer shall not deny the renewal of a health insurance policy on the ground that the insured had made a claim or claims in the preceding policy years, except for benefit based policies where the policy terminates following payment of the benefit covered under the policy. i. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before the end of the policy period. ii. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the Grace Period of 30 days (annual installment) to maintain continuity of benefits without break in policy. iii. Coverage is available during the grace period. iv. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience. However, discount in premium may be provided by insurers to individual policyholders for good claims experience. v. Insurer shall not resort to fresh underwriting by calling for medical examination, fresh proposal form etc at renewal stage where there is no change in sum insured offered. In case increase in sum insured is requested by the policyholder, the Insurer may underwrite only to the extent of increased sum insured IV. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy Including the Premium Rates The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the Policy including the premium rates. The Insured Person shall be notified three months before the changes are effected. V. Nomination The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose of payment of claims under the policy in the event of death of the policyholder. Any change of nomination shall be communicated to the company in writing and such change shall be effective only when an endorsement on the policy is made. ln the event of death of the policyholder, the Company will pay the nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy If we ever cancel your policy, it will be for Fraud or Non disclosure only. Insurance contract is a legal contract too and it’s based on trust. Fraud is an action by you or anyone acting on your behalf where you receive benefits, financial or otherwise, for which you are either not eligible at all or not to the extent under the policy. Pay you renewal premium before end of policy period to maintain continuity of benefits. A grace period of 30 days is also available to pay the premium after policy expiry. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under the policy. The insurer shall obtain nomination at the time of new business and at the time of renewal for existing policies. VI. Fraud lf any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the insured person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this policy, all benefits under this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited. Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent later shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the insurer. For the purpose of this clause, the expression “fraud” means any of the following acts committed by the insured person or by his agent or the hospital/ doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the insured person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an insurance policy: a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured person does not believe to be true; b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured person having knowledge or belief of the fact; c) any other act fitted to deceive; and d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, if the insured person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer. VII. Withdrawal of Policy i. ln the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the insured person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy. ii. lnsured Person will have the option to either renew (up to 90 days from renewal date) same product or to migrate to similar health insurance product available with the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative bonus, waiver of waiting period as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the policy has been maintained without a break. We will cancel your policy, will not pay any claim, will not refund any premium paid and have right to take all possible legal action against you including for recovery of benefits paid earlier, if • You withheld any information from us, whole or part that would have invited any decision other than a ‘standard acceptance’ of your application for insurance. Note: Non standard decisions are: o Loading – We ask for additional premium. o Exclusions – We apply a additional waiting period for health conditions or treatments. o Rejection – We hate to do this. But sometimes are compelled to say no to a customer. IMPORTANT: We understand you may not know how important is the information on your health and it’s impact on your policy. Hence it’s very important that you disclose all health information and we would decide how important (we call it ‘material’) it is. • Cause fraud of any kind If we withdraw any product, we will inform you at least 90 days before. You will also have the option to either renew (up to 90 days from renewal date) same product or to shift your policy with all accrued benefits to another similar health insurance product available with us. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 VIII. Redressal of Grievance: ln case of any grievance the insured person may contact the company through: Website: www.Nivabupa.com Toll free: 1860-500-8888 E-mail: Email us through our service platform https://rules.nivabupa. com/customer-service/ (Senior citizens may write to us at: seniorcitizensupport@nivabupa.com) Fax : +91 11 41743397 Courier: Customer Services Department Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited D-5, 2nd Floor, Logix Infotech Park opp. Metro Station, Sector 59, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, 201301 lnsured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the company’s branches with the details of grievance. If lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods, insured person may contact the grievance officer at: Head – Customer Services Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited D-5, 2nd Floor, Logix Infotech Park opp. Metro Station, Sector 59, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, 201301 Contact No: 1860-500-8888 Fax No.: +91 11 41743397 Email ID: Email our Grievance officer through our Grievance Redressal platform https:// transactions.nivabupa.com/pages/grievance-redressal.aspx For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link https://www. nivabupa.com/customer-care/health-services/grievance-redressal.aspx lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the insured person may also approach the office of lnsurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region for redressal of grievance as per lnsurance Ombudsman Rules 2017 ( at the addresses given in Annexure III). Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI integrated Grievance Management System – www.bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in IX. Claim settlement (Provision for Penal interest) I. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 15 days from the claim submission date. . II. ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the policyholder from the date of receipt of claim intimation till the date of payment of claim at a rate of 2% above the bank rate. You can contact us anytime for any service related to your policy, claim or complaint. We will provide our decision on claim within 15 days (from the claim submission date . For any delay in payment of claim, we will pay interest on the claim amount at a rate of 2% above bank rate. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 (Explanation: “Bank rate” shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of lndia (RBl) at the beginning of the financial year in which claim has fallen due) X. Moratorium Period After completion of sixty continuous months of coverage (including portability and migration) in health insurance policy, no policy and claim shall be contestable by the insurer on the grounds of non-disclosure, misrepresentation, except on grounds of established fraud. The period of sixty continuous months is called as moratorium period. The moratorium will be applicable for the sums insured of the first policy. Wherever, the sum insured is enhanced, completion of sixty continuous months would applicable from the date of enhancement of sums insured only on the enhanced limits. The policies would however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the Policy contract. Note: the accrued credits gained under the ported and migrated policies shall be counted for the purpose of calculating the Moratorium Period. XI. Multiple Policies I. Indemnity Based Policies: a. In case of multiple policies taken by an Insured Person during a period from one or more insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the Insured Person shall have the right to require a settlement of his / her claim in terms of any of his / her policies. In all such cases the insurer chosen by the Policyholder shall be considered as the Primary Insurer and will be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen Policy b. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the available coverage of the said policy, then the primary insurer shall seek the details of other available policies of the policyholder and shall coordinate with other insurers to ensure settlement pf the balance amount as per the policy conditions, without causing any hassles to the policy holder. II. Benefit Based Policies: a. occurrence of the insured event, the policy holder can claim from all Insurers under all policies XII. Migration In case of migration of one policy to another with the same Insurer, the policyholder (including all members under family cover and group insurance policies) can transfer the credits gained to the extent of the Sum Insured, No Claim Bonus, Specific Waiting periods, waiting period for pre-existing diseases, Moratorium period etc. in the previous policy to the migrated policy. The insurer may underwrite the proposal in case of migration, if the insured is not continuously covered for 36 months After 5 years, no health insurance claim shall be contestable except for proven fraud and permanent exclusions. You can shift your policy to any other health insurance product / plan offered by us as per migration guidelines. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 XIII. Portability A Policyholder has the choice to port his/ her policies from one Insurer to another irrespective of individual or group policy subject to the Board approved underwriting policy of the insurers. The policyholder is entitled to transfer the credits gained to the extent of the Sum Insured, No Claim Bonus, specific waiting periods, waiting period for pre-existing disease , Moratorium period etc. from the Existing Insurer to the Acquiring Insurer in the previous policy. XIV. Disclosure of Information The Policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any material fact by the policyholder. (Explanation: “Material facts” for the purpose of this policy shall mean all relevant information sought by the company in the proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to take informed decision in the context of underwriting the risk) XV. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the Company to make any payment for claim(s) arising under the policy. XVI. Complete Discharge Any payment to the policyholder, insured person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal representative or assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the policy shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that amount for the particular claim. 6.2. Specific terms and clauses I. Automatic Cancellation: The Policy shall automatically terminate in the event of death of the all Insured Person(s). A refund in accordance with Section 6.1 (II) shall be payable provided that no claim has been admitted or lodged or not benefit has been availed by the insured person under the policy. II. Additional premium (Risk Loading) i. We may ask for additional premium after due risk evaluation (it’s what referred to as Underwriting) based on all information provided by you. We will issue policy to you only after you pay us the additional premium and provide us consent. ii. We will never ask for more than 100% for any particular health condition and never more than 150% for any individual. iii. Once applied, Risk loading continues even for all renewals You can also shift your policy to any other insurer as per portability guidelines. The policy shall be considered void in case of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any material fact. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 III. Other Renewal Conditions: a. Renewal Premium: Renewal premium will alter based on Age. For Family Floater policies, the age of eldest insured person will be considered for calculating the premium. b. Addition of Insured Persons on Renewal: If a new member is added in the Policy, either by way of endorsement or at the time of Renewal, the Pre-existing Disease clause, exclusions, loading (if any) and Waiting Periods will be applicable afresh for that member. c. Changes to Sum Insured on Renewal: You may opt for enhancement of Sum Insured at the time of Renewal, subject to underwriting. All Waiting Periods as defined in the Policy shall apply afresh for this enhanced limit from the effective date of such enhancement. IV. Policy Disputes Any dispute concerning the interpretation of the terms, conditions, limitations and/or exclusions contained herein shall be governed by Indian law and shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Indian Courts. V. Territorial Jurisdiction All claims shall be payable in India in Indian Rupees only. VI. Notices Any notice, direction or instruction given under this Policy shall be in writing and delivered by hand, post, or facsimile to: i. You/the Insured Person at the address specified in the Policy Schedule or at the changed address of which We must receive written notice. ii. Us at the following address: Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited D-5, 2nd Floor, Logix Infotech Park opp. Metro Station, Sector 59, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, 201301 Fax No.: +91 11 41743397 iii. No insurance agents, brokers or other person/entity is authorized to receive any notice on Our behalf. iv. In addition, We may send You/the Insured Person other information through electronic and telecommunications means with respect to Your Policy from time to time. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 VII. Alteration to the Policy This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. Any change in the Policy will only be evidenced by a written endorsement signed and stamped by Us. No one except Us can within the permission of the IRDAI change or vary this Policy. VIII. Zonal pricing For the purpose of calculating premium, the country has been divided into the following 2 zones: i. Zone 1: Delhi NCR, Mumbai (including Navi Mumbai and Thane), Kolkata and Gujarat State ii. Zone 2: Rest of India Your premium depends upon your residential city. Please inform us immediately in case of change in your city. IX. Assignment The Policy can be assigned subject to applicable laws. X. Claims a. Cashless claim facility is available at our network hospitals ONLY. As list of network hospitals is dynamic, for the latest list, refer to our website www. nivabupa.com. b. Documents required with claim form: Hospital / Medical records: • Original Discharge summary with first and subsequent consultation papers. • Original Final Hospital bill with detailed break-up and payment receipt (including pharmacy bills). • Laboratory investigation reports with supporting prescriptions. • MLC/First Information Report (FIR) (in accident cases). Policyholder documents (Nominee in case of death of Policyholder): • KYC documents • Cancelled cheque IMPORTANT: • All documents MUST be submitted at the earliest possible time. • For any delay in submission, You MUST provide the reasons in writing. We will condone such delay on merits (i.e. reasons beyond your control). • You MUST submit all claim related documents for expenses within the Deductible amount (if applicable). • We reserve the right to check and investigate the hospital / medical records from any doctor, Hospital, clinic, individual or institution. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 c. The expenses that are not covered or subsumed into room charges / procedure charges / costs of treatment are placed as Annexure I. d. For any hospitalization, we will pay for items included in the bill by the Hospital during the duration of hospitalization. Items not included in the bill will not be paid. e. Once the final authorization request is received for discharge, the same will be processed within three hours from the final documents received. In case of delay from our end, any additional amount charged by the hopspital will be borne by us. This amount will be paid over and above the policy limits. Note: We offer Cashless Everywhere, even in hospitals which are not part of our network. For More details and process please visit our website: https://transactions.nivabupa.com/cashlessclaims/pages/intimation- claim.aspx Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 Annexure I – The expenses that are not covered or subsumed into room charges / procedure charges / costs of treatment List I – Expenses not covered Sl. No. Item Sl. No. Item Sl. No. Item 1 BABY FOOD 24 ATTENDANT CHARGES 47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT 2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES 25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE) 48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES 3 BEAUTY SERVICES 26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE 49 AMBULANCE COLLAR 4 BELTS/ BRACES 27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES 50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 5 BUDS 28 COURIER CHARGES 51 ABDOMINAL BINDER 6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK 29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES 52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPE- CIAL NURSING CHARGES 7 CARRY BAGS 30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 53 SUGAR FREE Tablets 8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 31 MEDICAL RECORDS 54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed medical pharmaceuti- cals payable) 9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT’s DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL) 32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 55 ECG ELECTRODES 10 LEGGINGS 33 MORTUARY CHARGES 56 GLOVES 11 LAUNDRY CHARGES 34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES 57 NEBULISATION KIT 12 MINERAL WATER 35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL) 58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MEN- TIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC] 13 SANITARY PAD 36 SPACER 59 KIDNEY TRAY 14 TELEPHONE CHARGES 37 SPIROMETRE 60 MASK 15 GUEST SERVICES 38 NEBULIZER KIT 61 OUNCE GLASS 16 CREPE BANDAGE 39 STEAM INHALER 62 OXYGEN MASK 17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 40 ARMSLING 63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT 18 EYELET COLLAR 41 THERMOMETER 64 PAN CAN 19 SLINGS 42 CERVICAL COLLAR 65 TROLLY COVER 20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES 43 SPLINT 66 UROMETER, URINE JUG 21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURS- ING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED 44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR 67 AMBULANCE 22 TELEVISION CHARGES 45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED) 68 VASOFIX SAFETY 23 SURCHARGES 46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 List II – Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges Sl. No. Item Sl. No. Item Sl. No. Item 1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED) 14 BED PAN 27 ADMISSION KIT 2 HAND WASH 15 FACE MASK 28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 3 SHOE COVER 16 FLEXI MASK 29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 4 CAPS 17 HAND HOLDER 30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES 5 CRADLE CHARGES 18 SPUTUM CUP 31 DAILY CHART CHARGES 6 COMB 19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS 32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES 7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS 20 LUXURY TAX 33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE 8 FOOT COVER 21 HVAC 34 FILE OPENING CHARGES 9 GOWN 22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED) 10 SLIPPERS 23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG 11 TISSUE PAPER 24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES 37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES 12 TOOTH PASTE 25 CLEAN SHEET 13 TOOTH BRUSH 26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET List III – Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges Sl. No. Item Sl. No. Item Sl. No. Item 1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES 17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations) 10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS 18 COTTON 3 EYE PAD 11 MICROSCOPE COVER 19 COTTON BANDAGE 4 EYE SHEILD 12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICS- CALPEL,SHAVER 20 SURGICAL TAPE 5 CAMERA COVER 13 SURGICAL DRILL 21 APRON 6 DVD, CD CHARGES 14 EYE KIT 22 TORNIQUET 7 GAUSE SOFT 15 EYE DRAPE 23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 8 GAUZE 16 X-RAY FILM Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 List IV – Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment Sl. No. Item Sl. No. Item Sl. No. Item 1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES 7 INFUSION PUMP– COST 13 MOUTH PAINT 2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUA- TION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS ETC 14 VACCINATION CHARGES 3 URINE CONTAINER 9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES 15 ALCOHOL SWABES 4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES 10 HIV KIT 16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM 5 BIPAP MACHINE 11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH 17 GLUCOMETER & STRIPS 6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS 12 LOZENGES 18 URINE BAG Annexure II - List of Insurance Ombudsmen Office Details Jurisdiction of Office Union Territory,District) AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor, Tilak Marg, Relief Road, Ahmedabad – 380 001. Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06 Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in Gujarat, UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu. BENGALURU - Smt. Neerja Shah Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19 Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078. Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049 Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in Karnataka. BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, Near New Market, Bhopal – 462 003. Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 Fax: 0755 - 2769203 Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in Madhya Pradesh Chhattisgarh. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra Panda Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 62, Forest park, Bhubneshwar – 751 009. Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455 Fax: 0674 - 2596429 Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in Orissa. CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, Chandigarh – 160 017. Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468 Fax: 0172 - 2708274 Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, UT of Chandigarh. CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, Anna Salai, Teynampet, CHENNAI – 600 018. Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284 Fax: 044 - 24333664 Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in Tamil Nadu,UT- Pondicherry Town and Karaikal (which are part of UT of Pondicherry). DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi – 110 002. Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504 Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in Delhi. GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205 Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6-2-46, 1st floor, “Moin Court”, Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad - 500 004. Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122 Fax: 040 - 23376599 Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, UT of Yanam and part of UT of Pondicherry. JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, Bhawani Singh Marg, Jaipur - 302 005. Tel.: 0141 - 2740363 Email: Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in Rajasthan. ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, Ernakulam - 682 015. Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338 Fax: 0484 - 2359336 Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in Kerala, UT of (a)Lakshadweep,(b) Mahe-a part of UT of Pondicherry. KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, 4, C.R. Avenue, KOLKATA - 700 072. Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 Fax : 033 - 22124341 Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in West Bengal, Sikkim, UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands. LUCKNOW -Shri Justice Anil Kumar Srivastava Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, Lucknow - 226 001. Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331 Fax: 0522 - 2231310 Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in Districts of Uttar Pradesh : Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, Chitra- koot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, Kan- pur, Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkar- nagar, Sultanpur, Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar. Product Name: Senior First, Product UIN: MAXHLIP21575V012021 MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai - 400 054. Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960 Fax: 022 - 26106052 Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in Goa, Mumbai Metropolitan Region excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane. NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Bhagwan Sahai Palace 4th Floor, Main Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15, Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301. Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253 Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in State of Uttaranchal and the following Districts of Uttar Pradesh: Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautam- bodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Ha- pur, Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur. PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,, Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpur, Patna 800 006. Tel.: 0612-2680952 Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in Bihar, Jharkhand. PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, Pune – 411 030. Tel.: 020-41312555 Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in Maharashtra, Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region. EXECUTIVE COUNCIL OF INSURERS, 3rd Floor, Jeevan SevaAnnexe, S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai - 400 054. Tel.: 022 - 26106889 / 671 / 980 Fax: 022 - 26106949 Email: inscoun@ecoi.co.in Shri. M.M.L. Verma, Secretary General Smt. Moushumi Mukherji, Secretary Ombudsmen details are subject to change. Please refer this link for the updated details: CIO (cioins.co.in)”