THE FUTURE OF HEALTH INSURANCE THAT OFFERS UNLIMITED SUM INSURED ALONG WITH PREMIUM PAYBACK BENEFIT ^The Company Was Awarded ‘Best Claim Settlement Company of The Year’ Award At The 9th Annual India Insurance Summit & Awards 2025, in March 2025 You live every moment with the assurance that your health insurance will always have your back. That is and should be a certainty you live with. But what does the future of health insurance hold? In today's world, many people hesitate buying health insurance as they often feel that their hard-earned money is not utilized wisely when they don't make a claim on their health insurance. That's why Care Health Insurance presents - the ultimate evolution in health Insurance. It not only secures you financially from treatment costs of medical exigencies but also pays back your base premium if you don't make a claim for 5 consecutive years. Moreover, it offers loyalty rewards for staying healthy in the long term. The Future of Health Insurance awaits you today. Why ? What do you get with ? *This is an Optional Benefit that is pre-added in the sales proposition. Available on payment of additional premium. In case no hospitalisation related claim is made for the preceding 5 consecutive Policy Years, then 1st Policy Year premium of base plan shall be refunded in every block of 5 years subject to subsequent renewal of Policy. Base premium is the premium excluding optional benefits. ^^This is an optional benefit available on payment of additional premium. #Provided no hospitalisation related claim has been made in 7 preceding Policy Years. Waiting Period shall be waived off for this additional Sum Insured. If there is an increase in Sum Insured, the original Sum Insured at the Policy's inception will be considered and in case of decrease in sum insured, the reduced sum insured will be considered. **This is an optional benefit (wellness benefit) that is pre-added in the sales proposition. Available on payment of additional premium. ##This is an optional benefit that is pre-added in the sales proposition. Available on payment of additional premium with multi tenure policies and only one claim is payable in the entire policy term under this benefit. ^Discounts on premium are available only for the first 3 years - 30% discount in first year, 20% discount in second year and 10% discount in 3rd Year. Welcome Discount^ Upto 30% discount on premium for new policy buyers Infinity Bonus^^ This benefit doesn’t limit the cumulative bonus, providing a 100% bonus of the Sum Insured every year, irrespective of claims made - unlimited times Premium Payback* Get rewarded for staying healthy! No claims for 5 consecutive policy years? We’ll refund your first year base premium after every 5 claim-free years Tenure Multiplier## Combine annual Sum Insured of multi-year policy for a single claim in a policy tenure MediVouchers Ease out-of-pocket expenses with two pharmacy vouchers worth `250 each will be provided upon the first policy renewal, making your medical expenses even more affordable Wellness Discount** Enjoy up to a 30% discount on renewal premiums with healthy days program on Care Health – Customer App Loyalty Boost# Additional 100% of SI as bonus - equivalent to first policy year's SI, after 7 claim-free years How Does This Plan Work? Eligibility Criteria Sum Insured (SI) – on annual basis (in `) Age of Proposer Entry Age – Minimum Entry Age – Maximum Exit Age Cover Type Tenure Options Pricing Who are covered (Relationship with respect to the proposer having Insurable Interest) 5L/ 7L/ 10L/ 15L/ 20L/ 25L/ 50L/ 1Cr/ Unlimited# 18 years or above Adult: 18 years Child: 91 days Adult: No upper age limit Child: 24 years (last birthday) Adult: lifelong Child: 25 years Individual: Maximum up to 6 persons Floater: Maximum up to 2A2C 1/ 2/ 3 years Zone 1 - Delhi NCR, Surat, Mathura, Aligarh Zone 2 - Telangana, Mumbai (MMR), Ahmedabad, Vadodra, Nashik Zone 3 - Pune, Indore, Bengaluru Urban, Rest of Gujarat Zone 4 - Rest of India Note -1. Cities above means adjoining cities also 2. Delhi-NCR, Mumbai (MMR), is as defined by Government Self, Spouse/ Live-in partner/ Same sex partner, Son, Daughter, Father, Mother, Mother-in-law, Father-in-law, Grand-Father, Grand-Mother and as per insurable interest In-Patient Care Day Care Treatment Advance Technology Methods Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses Post-Hospitalization Medical Expenses AYUSH Treatment Domiciliary Hospitalization Organ Donor Cover Ambulance Cover Cumulative Bonus Unlimited Automatic Recharge Health Services Loyalty Boost New Born - Wait Period Benefit MediVoucher Room Rent ICU Cover Up to SI All day care procedures Up to SI Up to SI, Pre-hospitalization expenses cover for 60 days prior to hospitalization Up to SI, Post-hospitalization expenses cover for 90 days after discharge Up to SI Up to SI Up to SI Up to SI Any mode of transport such as Road/ Air/ Train/ Boat etc. 50% of Base SI per year irrespective of claim, maximum up to 100% Note: Shall not reduce in case of claim Available for unlimited times for unrelated or same illness from subsequent claim Health Portal - Doctor on chat, Healthy tips reminder, etc. Discount Connect - Discounts on services such as consultations, diagnostics, maternity etc at our network An additional 100% of the SI as bonus - equivalent to the first policy year’s sum insured will be added to the policy coverage after 7 consecutive claim-free years, once in a policy lifetime Wait Period as per current policy will be applicable to the new born if added within 90 days of birth 2 pharmacy vouchers of `250 each per policy shall be provided on 1st renewal with the Company Up to SI Up to SI Plan Details Infinity Bonus* Premium Payback* Unlimited Care^ Unlimited E-Consultations* Instant cover^ Claim Shield^ PED Wait Period Modification^ 100% of Base Sum Insured per year irrespective of claim for unlimited times on continuous renewal of policy. Note: Shall not reduce in case of claim Speciﬁed list of items (list I, II, III and IV) that are non-payable shall be covered up to the Sum Insured PED wait period shall be modiﬁed to 1 year/ 2 years a) Recording 10,000 steps (8000 steps for Insured Person of age 60 years and above) or more in a day through tracking apps, devices, etc. b) Access to Digital Fitness Coaching c) Access to AI Fitness Coaching d) Access to Nutritionist/ Wellness Coach Note: Benefit (b, c & d) shall be available for Insured members aged above 12 years Once for all Insured every policy year Unlimited access to Fitness centres can be availed by Insured Person aged above 12 years Your policy will remain active, ensuring continuous protection during the grace period (only coverage under the hospitalization expenses benefit shall be provided) Combine annual Sum Insured of multi-year policy for a single claim in a policy tenure This benefit will be applicable on an individual basis. In case of a floater, the average of the number of healthy days as attained by all the Insured shall be considered Responsibility of mapping device with CHIL system is of the Insured No. of days completing 10,000 steps (8,000 steps for an Insured person of age 60 years and above) or more that are accumulated in last 2 months of the policy period would not be considered for discount on renewal premium. The same shall carry forward and will be considered in the next policy period In case of multi-tenure, average of the number of healthy days over policy tenure will be considered for discount In case of an installment premium mode is opted, then a discount shall be considered only post payment of ﬁrst 6 months of premium Vouchers of value equivalent to renewal discount amount can also be provided to Insured in case he/she does not wish for a discount on renewal premium Note: The above section of beneﬁt are available only for Insured covered as Adults aged 18 and above in the policy and discount calculated shall be applicable on total premium of the policy No. of days in a year 270 240 180 120 Less than 120 30% 20% 15% 10% 0% Renewal Discount In case no hospitalization related claim for the preceding 5 consecutive policy years, then 1st policy year base premium shall be refunded in every block of 5 years Any one claim during the lifetime of the policy payable without any sum insured limit Available for consultations with general physicians and specialist If insured person has pre-existing diseases (Diabetes/ Hypertension/ Hyperlipidemia/ Asthma/ Obesity/ Hypothyroidism/ Coronary Artery Disease (PTCA prior 1 year) at the time of issuance of first policy with us, the applicable PED wait period shall be waived off. Coverage shall start from the 31st day of policy start date after serving initial wait period of 30 days. Wellness benefit* Annual Health Check up^ Be-fit Plus* Grace Period Coverage* How Does This Plan Work? *This is an optional benefit that is pre-added in the sales preposition and available on payment of additional premium. ^This is an optional benefit that is available on payment of additional premium #Cumulative bonus, unlimited automatic recharge, loyalty boost, Infinity bonus, unlimited care & tenure multiplier benefit will not applicable with unlimited Sum Insured option ^^This is an optional benefit that is pre-added in the sales proposition. Available on payment of additional premium with multi tenure policies and only one claim is payable in the entire policy term under this benefit. ^^^This is an optional benefit offered under add-on policy ‘Care OPD’ and available on payment of additional premium. Tenure Multiplier^^ Physical Consultations with General Physicians^ Out-patient Consultations* Physical Consultations with Specialist Doctors^ General Physicians & Specialists physical consultations: up to `5,000 per insured, with a limit of `500 per consultation Maximum 4 physical consultations per Insured per policy year with general physicians subject to maximum `500 per consultation in policy year Maximum 4 physical consultations per Insured per policy year with listed specialist doctors subject to maximum `500 per consultation in a policy year 1 Initial waiting period (not applicable on accident cases) 30 days 2 Named ailment waiting period 24 months 3 Pre-existing diseases waiting period 36 months Waiting Periods About us Care Health Insurance is a specialized health insurer offering products in the retail segment for Health Insurance, Top-up Coverage, Personal Accident, Maternity, International Travel Insurance and Critical Illness along with Group Health Insurance and Group Personal Accident Insurance for Corporates, Micro Insurance Products for the Rural Market and a Comprehensive Set of Wellness Services. With its operat- ing philosophy being based on the principal tenet of ‘consumer-centricity’, the company has consistently invested in the effective application of technology to deliver excellence in customer servicing, product innovation and value-for-money services. Apart from numerous awards since inception, in December 2025, Care Health Insurance (CHI) was conferred ‘Smart Insurer’ and ‘Sales Champion’ awards in the Health Insurance category at the ET Now Insurance Summit & Awards 2025; in March 2025, was awarded ‘Best Claim Settlement Company of the Year’ at the 9th Annual India Insurance Summit & Awards 2025 and in December 2024 CHI was accorded the ‘Overall Achievement Award’ (SAHI category) at the ASSOCHAM 16th Global Insurance Summit & Awards. Care Health Insurance Limited Registered Office: 5th Floor, 19 Chawla House, Nehru Place, New Delhi-110019 Correspondence Office: Vipul Tech Square, Tower C, 3rd Floor, Golf Course Road, Sector-43, Gurugram-122009 (Haryana) Website: www.careinsurance.com Disclaimer: This is only summary of selective features of product and add-on policy . For more details on risk factors, terms and conditions please read sales brochure carefully before concluding a sale. Please seek the advice of your insurance advisor if you require any further information or clarification. Insurance is a subject matter of solicitation. CIN:U66000DL2007PLC161503 UIN:CHIHLIP26058V022526 (Ultimate Care) UIN:CHIHLIA23060V012223 (Care OPD) UAN:26027123 IRDAI Registration Number - 148 REACH US @ WhatsApp - 8860402452 Care Health - Customer App: https://careinsurance.app.link/3QB1xwRrNPb www.careinsurance.com/self-help-portal.html Submit Your Queries/Requests: www.careinsurance.com/contact-us.html SELF HELP            Ver:Feb/26/AP Each insured is eligible for 4 physical consultations with a general physician per year. A maximum of `1,000 with a 10% co-payment will be reimbursed per consultation. Each insured is eligible for 4 physical consultations with any of 14 specified specialists per year. A maximum of `2,000 with a 5% co-payment will be reimbursed per consultation. How Does This Plan Work? OPD Benefit^^^ Note: Only one OPD benefit can be selected from the above 3 options.