TAKE CONTROL OF THE WAY YOU GET YOUR RETURNS ABOUT BAJAJ LIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (Formerly known as Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Limited) Bajaj Life Insurance Limited one of India’s leading private life insurers, is a subsidiary of Bajaj Finserv Limited. Built on the strong foundation of the Bajaj Group’s legacy, it offers innovative life insurance solutions with a focus on enabling Life Goals for millions across the country. Protecting and saving for your tomorrow is one of those aspects where you would like your plan to be suitable for you and your family's needs. How amazing would it be if we could create our own financial plan - where you could design it yourself! BAJAJ LIFE ACE Ÿ Flexibility: Decide if you want an income or lump sum or both Ÿ Choice of Income: Ÿ Choose to receive income from first month or after a fixed period based on your need Ÿ Decide if you prefer a level income or an increasing income Ÿ Choose if you want income for a limited term or up to 100 years of age Ÿ Protection: Protect your loved ones with a life cover throughout the policy term, up to 100 years Ÿ Premium payment term: Choice of paying premiums for 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 12 years Ÿ Tax benefits: On premiums paid and benefits received as per prevailing tax laws WHAT MAKES BAJAJ LIFE ACE PERFECT FOR YOU? The plan offers four product options HOW DOES THE PLAN WORK? An option that provides you income starting after the Premium Payment Term and Deferment period. The income will be a mix of guaranteed income and cash bonus, (if declared) Deferred Income st An option that provides you income from the 1 policy month/ year after deferment period by way of cash bonuses (if declared) and guaranteed income (GI) Early Income An option that provides an increasing income starting after the Premium Payment Term and Deferment period. The income will be a mix of guaranteed and cash bonus, (if declared) Increasing Income An option that provides you a lump sum at the end of the policy term You can choose one or more of these options to design the financial plan of your choice. Wealth Choose how you want to receive the proceeds of your policy by selecting one or more options HOW DO YOU DESIGN YOUR PLAN? Choose the premium that you wish to save every year Choose how long you want to pay, when you want to start the benefits and for how long you want them. Your financial plan is now all set! Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Income Benefit: You shall receive an income which comprises of a Guaranteed I ncome and cash bonuses, if declared. This income is paid in arrears after the end of the Premium Payment Term and Deferment period and is payable till the end of policy term. Ÿ Guaranteed Income = Guaranteed income factor of 4% X Benefit Sum Assured Ÿ Cash Bonus payable = Declared Cash Bonus rate X Benefit Sum Assured Deferment period: You will have an option to defer the start of your income by up to 5 years Maturity Benefit: On maturity of the Policy, you will receive: Ÿ Sum Assured on Maturity, i.e. 105% of total premiums paid, plus Ÿ Accumulated Income benefits, if any plus Ÿ Terminal bonus (if declared) Death Benefit: In case of death of the Life Assured during the policy term, The death benefit will be paid as: Ÿ Sum Assured on Death plus Ÿ 105% of Accumulated Income benefits, if any plus Ÿ Terminal Bonus (if declared) Ÿ The Sum Assured on Death will be 11 times of Annualised premium. At no time the Death Benefit will be less than the Guaranteed Death Benefit. If there is any shortfall, the same will be added to the Death Benefit. Ÿ The death benefit will be paid-out as a lump-sum, and the policy will terminate if not opted to take the death benefit in instalments. Deferred Income OPTIONS IN DETAIL OPTIONS IN DETAIL Income Benefit: You are eligible to receive an income in the form of Cash bonuses that may be declared by the Company every year. You can opt to take this cash bonus (if declared) monthly/ st st yearly which gives you an income starting from the end of 1 month/ 1 year after the Deferment period of your Policy. In addition to the cash bonus, if declared, you shall also receive a Guaranteed Income. The income benefit is payable for the entire policy term Ÿ Guaranteed Income = Guaranteed income factor of 4% X Benefit Sum Assured Ÿ Cash Bonus payable = Declared Cash Bonus rate X Benefit Sum Assured Deferment Period: You will have an option to defer the start of your income by up to 5 years Maturity Benefit: On maturity of the Policy, you will receive: Ÿ Sum Assured on Maturity, i.e. 105% of Total premiums paid plus Ÿ Accumulated Income benefits, if any earlier, plus Ÿ Terminal bonus (if declared) Death Benefit: In case of death of the Life Assured during the policy term, the death benefit will be paid as: Ÿ Sum Assured on Death plus Ÿ 105% of Accumulated Income benefits, if any earlier plus Ÿ Terminal Bonus (if declared) Ÿ The Sum Assured on Death will be 11 times of Annualised premium. At no time the Death Benefit will be less than the Guaranteed Death Benefit. If there is any shortfall, the same will be added to the Death Benefit. Ÿ The death benefit will be paid-out as a lump-sum, and the policy will terminate if not opted to take the death benefit in instalments. Early Income Income Benefit: You shall receive an income which comprises of a Guaranteed Income and cash bonuses, if declared. This income is paid in arrears after the end of the Premium Payment Term and Deferment period and is payable till the end of policy term. These incomes will be declared as a percentage of the Benefit Sum Assured. Benefit Sum Assured is guaranteed to increase at 5% p.a. (on compounding basis) every year. The increased Benefit Sum Assured will be used for calculation of respective years's Guaranteed Incomes and Cash bonuses if declared. Guaranteed Income shall be 2% of the Benefit Sum Assured. Deferment period: You will have an option to defer the start of your income by up to 5 years Maturity Benefit: On maturity of the Policy, you will receive: Ÿ Sum Assured on Maturity, i.e. 105% of total premiums paid, plus Ÿ Accumulated Income benefits, if any plus Ÿ Terminal bonus (if declared) Death Benefit: In case of death of the Life Assured during the policy term, The death benefit will be paid as: Ÿ Sum Assured on Death, plus Ÿ 105% of Accumulated Income benefits, if any plus Ÿ Terminal Bonus (if declared) Ÿ Ÿ The Sum Assured on Death will be 11 times of Annualised premium. At no time the Death Benefit will be less than the Guaranteed Death Benefit. If there is any shortfall, the same will be added to the Death Benefit. Ÿ The death benefit will be paid-out as a lump-sum, and the policy will terminate if not opted to take the death benefit in instalments. Increasing Income OPTIONS IN DETAIL Wealth Maturity Benefit: On maturity, you will receive a lumpsum amount equal to: Ÿ Maturity Sum Assured, i.e. Maturity Sum Assured Rate x Annualised Premium, plus Ÿ Accrued Simple Reversionary Bonus (if declared), plus Ÿ Terminal Bonus (if declared) Death Benefit: In case of death of the Life Assured during the policy term, the death benefit will be paid as: Ÿ Sum Assured on Death, plus Ÿ Accrued simple reversionary bonus (if declared), plus Ÿ Terminal Bonus (if declared) Ÿ The Sum Assured on Death will be 11 times of Annualised premium. At no time the Death Benefit will be less than the Guaranteed Death Benefit. If there is any shortfall, the same will be added to the Death Benefit. Ÿ The death benefit will be paid-out as a lump-sum, and the policy will terminate if not opted to take the death benefit in instalments. Note: Ÿ Guaranteed Death Benefit is 105% of the Total Premiums paid. Ÿ Sum Assured is 11 times of Annualised Premium. Ÿ Annualised Premium is premium amount payable in a year excluding taxes, rider premiums and underwriting extra premium on riders, if any. Ÿ Total Premiums means total of all premiums paid under the policy, excluding any extra premium and taxes, if collected explicitly. Ÿ Please note that GST & cess (if any) will be collected over and above the premium under the policy. Ÿ The Benefit Sum Assured will be used for the calculation of Guaranteed Income, Cash Bonus, Simple Reversionary Bonus and Terminal Bonus and will not be paid on any event. Ÿ Sum Assured on Maturity is equal to (i) 105% of the Total Premiums paid under Product Options 1, 2, 3, and (ii) Maturity Sum Assured under Product Option 4. OPTIONS IN DETAIL FLEXIBILITIES UNDER THE PLAN Option to Accumulate Income Benefits You will have an option to accumulate the Income benefits in the plan. Once this option has been exercised, the Guaranteed Incomes and Cash bonuses, if declared, would be accumulated until a request is submitted to take out this accumulation. This option can be exercised any time during the Policy term. The benefits will be accumulated on yearly frequency, and you will earn an investment return on the accumulated corpus. Anytime during the policy term, the policyholder will have the option to withdraw, in part or in full, the accumulated income benefit. The policyholder will have the flexibility to discontinue this option at any time. This option is not applicable to Wealth product option. The accumulation will be at an investment return of prevailing 10-year G-Sec yield p.a. which will be declared by the company every year. Goal Protection Benefit (GPB) By opting for this benefit, you can ensure that your savings goal will remain intact even if you are not around. Thus, providing your family a financial protection net by continuing the benefit payouts to them as you have planned. How the plan works if you have opted for Goal Protection Benefit: On survival (until maturity): Your Income benefits and maturity benefit will be paid to you as and when due. On Death (during the PPT): On Death of the Life Assured during the Premium payment Term, • The Sum Assured on Death plus 5% of accumulated income benefit, if any shall be paid immediately • The policy will be continued, and no future premiums will be collected, and • Your nominee will receive the Income benefits, if any, and maturity benefit as and when due till maturity • Simple Reversionary Bonus, if any, will continue to accrue in the policy • The accumulated Income benefits, if any, will remain accumulated in the policy FLEXIBILITIES UNDER THE PLAN Premium payment Term GI CB The policy will terminate on payment of last Income benefit and Maturity benefit. Premiums not collected Premium payment Term GI CB Guaranteed Income Cash Bonus Guaranteed Income Cash Bonus On Death (after the PPT): On Death of the Life Assured after the Premium payment Term, • The Sum Assured on Death plus 5% of accumulated income benefit, if any shall be paid immediately • Your nominee will receive the Income benefits and maturity benefit as and when due till maturity • Simple Reversionary bonus, if any, will continue to accrue in the policy • The accumulated Income benefits, if any, will remain accumulated in the policy Flexibility to select multiple plan options: • You have the flexibility to choose one/more than one Product Options to create the financial plan that best suits your requirements. The benefits payable under the policy on survival, maturity, surrender, death will be the sum of respective benefits payable under each product option chosen. Let us see how the benefits look like: For 35Y Male | Annual Premium : `1,00,000 | PPT : 10 years | Policy Term : 65 years | Deferment Period : 0 years FLEXIBILITIES UNDER THE PLAN Premium payment Term GI CB The policy will terminate on payment of last Income benefit and Maturity benefit. Premium payment Term GI CB Total Premiums Paid: `10,00,000 Guaranteed Income Cash Bonus Options opted: Early Income & Wealth 0 9 Guaranteed Income Cash Bonus Benefits `15,257 `1,907 `17,164 `11,24,926 `22,40,586 `12,984 `1,623 `14,607 `12,99,753 `22,49,208 `9,738 `1,217 `10,955 `15,49,505 `22,61,580 Guaranteed Income (A) Cash Bonus (B) Total (A+B) Annual Income Maturity Benefit Total Benefit till Maturity Benefit @ 8% Customer Needs `15,257 `22,885 `38,142 `91,80,975 `1,16,60,205 `12,984 `19,476 `32,460 `2,16,17,673 `2,37,27,573 `9,738 `14,607 `24,345 `3,93,84,384 `4,09,66,809 Guaranteed Income (A) Cash Bonus (B) Total (A+B) Annual Income Maturity Benefit Total Benefit till Maturity Benefit @ 4% Early Income: 94% Wealth: 6% Proportion of Premium Higher Income Balanced Benefits Higher Maturity Early Income: 80% Wealth: 20% Early Income: 60% Wealth: 40% Note - ŸFor above illustration, the Sum Assured on Death at inception will be Rs. 11,00,000 ŸThe above illustration is assuming the Life Assured is alive till the end of the policy term ŸThe premium mentioned above are exclusive of any extra premium loading and Goods & Service Tax/any other applicable tax levied, subject to changes in tax laws. ŸThe assumed rate of returns indicated at 4% and 8% are illustrative and not guaranteed and do not indicate the upper or lower limits of returns under the policy FLEXIBILITIES UNDER THE PLAN ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS All ages mentioned above are age as on last birthday. Risk cover (including for minor lives) will commence immediately on the date of commencement of risk in the policy. In the case of a minor life, the policy will vest on the life assured on the earlier of attainment of age 18 years age or maturity date. For female lives, 2% markup will be available on Benefit Sum Assured. Income Period will commence after the end of Deferment Period. Minimum premium: `25,000 p.a. Maximum premium: No limit (subject to Board approved underwriting policy) Minimum & maximum Sum Assured: 11 times of Annualised premium Benefit Sum Assured (BSA) is derived basis Age, Product option, GPB, DP, PT, PPT, Income period and premium chosen by the Policyholder Benefits will vary depending upon options chosen The product is available for sale through online mode Plan Benefits Premium Payment Term (PPT) Income Period (IP) Deferment Period (DP) Policy Term (PT) Min/ Max. Age at Entry Min/ Max. Age at Maturity Early Income Deferred Income 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12 IP = PT minus DP Limited Term: 10, 15, 20,25, 30 Whole Life : till Age 85 till Age 100 0 to 5 years Limited Term: 10 to 45 years Whole Life: Upto Age 85 or 100 Limited Term: 10 to 45 years Whole Life: Upto Age 85 or 100 With GPB: 18 to 55 years Without GPB: 0 to 60 years With GPB: Upto Age 85 years Without GPB: Upto age 100 years Increasing Income Wealth NA NA Limited Term: 10 to 45 years Whole Life: Upto Age 85 or 100 Limited Term: 10 to 45 years Whole Life: Upto Age 85 or 100 SURRENDER BENEFIT UNDER THE PLAN ŸThe policyholder will have the option to surrender the policy. The surrender value payable will be the higher of the guaranteed surrender value (GSV) or the special surrender value (SSV). ŸThe policy will acquire a GSV provided two (2) full years' premiums have been paid. SSV shall become payable after completion of first (1st) policy year provided at least one (1) full years' premium has been received. ŸA product option alone in a policy cannot be surrendered. ŸGSV Factors will be applied on Total Premiums received and the sum of all in-force or paid-up Income payouts paid (as applicable), will be reduced from this amount, to arrive at the GSV. ŸFor Wealth Option, additionally, GSV Factor will be applied on accrued Simple Reversionary Bonus, if declared. ŸThe SSV factors for all the variants are not guaranteed, and company will revise these factors from time to time, subject to the prior approval of IRDAI. ŸThe surrender benefit payable will be the sum of surrender values payable under each benefit opted in the policy. ŸThe policy will terminate on the date of surrender. NON PAYMENT OF PREMIUM a) If at least one (1) full years' premiums are not paid, the policy will, immediately & automatically, lapse at the expiry of the grace period, and no benefit other than the Accumulated income benefit, if any, will be payable under the policy. The Accumulated income benefit, if any, in the policy will be paid out at the end of grace period. b) A policy which has acquired surrender value shall not lapse by reason of the non-payment of future premiums, instead, the policy will be, immediately & automatically, converted to a reduced paid-up policy at the expiry of the grace period. (i) A reduced paid-up Policy will not be eligible for any future Cash Bonus or Simple Reversionary Bonus, if declared. However, it will be eligible for future Paid-up GI, and Investment Return, if there is any AIB under the Policy. (ii) The paid-up Benefit Sum assured, the Paid-up sum assured and the paid-up sum assured on death, are obtained by multiplying the Benefit sum assured, the Sum Assured and the sum assured on death, respectively, by a factor equal to the proportion of the number of premiums paid to the total number of premiums payable under the option. This Paid-up GI allows for reduction of the GIs already paid out in the policy before it became paid-up. Note- Please refer policy terms and conditions for more details (iii) In Product Option 3, similar to GI, Paid-up GI shall also increase by 5% (on a compound basis) every policy year. In the determination of the Death Benefit, Survival Benefit and the Maturity Benefit of a reduced paid-up Policy, the same approach as in Section 4 above will be followed; but, in the determination of the benefits, the Sum Assured, Sum Assured on Death, Guaranteed Death Benefit, Sum Assured on Maturity, and GI will be replaced by the Paid-up Sum Assured, Paid-up Sum Assured on Death, Paid-up Guaranteed Death Benefit, Paid-up GI and Paid-Up Sum Assured on Maturity, respectively. (iv) The policyholder may revive a lapsed policy/paid-up policy subject to the conditions mentioned in the revival clause. REVIVAL OF THE PLAN You can revive your lapsed or paid-up policy, subject to the following conditions; i) The application for revival is made within five (5) years from the due date of the first unpaid premium, before the Maturity Date. ii) The arrears of premiums together with interest, at such rate as the company may decide from time to time along with applicable taxes are paid. The current applicable revival interest is 10% p.a. compounded half- yearly. iii) On revival, you are entitled to receive all contractual benefits. iv) P lease refer the policy terms and conditions for more details Note: The revival interest rate will be benchmarked to the G-Sec based on the information from Financial Benchmark India Private Ltd (FBIL). It will be equal to [10-year G-Sec yield PLUS 2%] rounded-up to the next full interest rate. The revival interest rate will be reviewed on an annual basis. Any change in bases used for determination of applicable interest rate will be subject to prior approval of IRDAI. Additional Benefit under the Plan Riders: You can enjoy extra coverage during the policy term by choosing the optional additional rider benefits at a nominal extra cost. The riders available with all variants under Bajaj Life ACE are: 1. Bajaj Life Accidental Death Benefit Rider (UIN: 116B034V02) 2. Bajaj Life Accidental Permanent Total/Partial Disability Benefit Rider (UIN:116B036V02) 3. Bajaj Life Family Protect Rider (UIN: 116B056V01) Please refer to respective rider sales literature or visit Company website or consult your “Insurance Consultant” for more details and eligibility conditions. Alteration of premium paying frequency You will have an option to change the Premium payment frequency under your Policy at any Policy anniversary, subject to the availability of the frequency. The Premium payment modes available are yearly, half yearly, quarterly and monthly. The Premium for frequencies other than annual is given by the annual Premium multiplied with the frequency factor. The factors are: Premium frequency Frequency Factor (freq) Monthly 0.0875 Quarterly 0.26 Half-yearly Yearly 1.00 REVIVAL OF THE PLAN Alteration of Income frequency (for Product Option 1 to 3): The default option in the product is to take the Income benefits (GI and Cash bonus, if declared) in annual instalments. However, the policyholder will have an option to change the frequency and take these benefits in any instalment frequency; in arrear or advance on the policy anniversary. The modal income taken in advance will be paid only after receiving the modal premium due then. Modal Income = x% of Yearly income payout paid in arrears Modal Frequency Monthly Quarterly Half-yearly Yearly In Arrear (x) 95.00 96.00 96.50 100.00 In Advance (x) 94.50 94.25 93.00 92.00 The Benefit Sum Assured and GI rate used in this calculation will be that w.r.t the Product Option under the policy. The policyholder will have the flexibility to discontinue this option at any time. Benefit Sum Assured = (modal premium/frequency factor) x Benefit Sum Assured rate The quarterly and monthly mode will be allowed only under auto-debit process (as per the approved RBI facilities). Option to take Maturity Benefit in Installments (in all Product Options) i) The policyholder will have an option to take Maturity Benefit in monthly or yearly instalments over a period of 5, 10, 15 or 20 years. This option can be chosen at any time before maturity. ii) The interest rates applicable for arriving at these instalments for the chosen period shall be equal to the yields of the respective G-Sec yield less a spread of 25 basis points for instalments over a period of 5, 10, 15 and 20 years. The interest rate will be benchmarked to the G-Sec based on the information from Financial Benchmark India Private Ltd (FBIL). E.g., For instalment period of 5 years, 5-year G-Sec yield less a spread of 25 basis points will be applicable. iii) The policyholder will have the option to request for a discontinuance of the instalments even after the instalments have commenced. The policyholder will be eligible to receive an amount equal to discounted value of the future instalments as on the date of such request (which would be discounted at the same interest rate used at the time of instalments calculation). Death Benefit in Instalments (in all Product Options) i) At the time of intimation of death of life assured, the policyholder or nominee (as applicable) will have the option to take the death benefit in equal monthly instalments over a period of five (5) or ten (10) years (as per his/her choice) from the date of intimation of death. The amount of monthly instalments once started cannot be changed. ii) The first instalments shall be due on the date of intimation of death. iii) The interest rate will be benchmarked to the G-Sec based on the information from Financial Benchmark India Private Ltd (FBIL)). It will be equal to [10-year G-Sec yield LESS 1%] rounded-down to the lower full interest rate. iv) The interest rate will be reviewed on an annual basis. Any change in bases used for determination of applicable interest rate will be subject to prior approval of IRDAI. v) The nominee/policyholder will have the option, at any time, to request for a discontinuance of the monthly instalments even after the instalments have commenced. The nominee/ policyholder will be eligible to receive an amount equal to the present value (PV) of the remaining instalments as on the date of such request (PV would be at the same interest rate used at the time of instalments calculation). Tax Benefits under the Plan As per applicable tax laws as amended from time to time. You are requested to consult your tax consultant and obtain independent advice for eligibility and before claiming any benefit under the policy. Policy Loan Provided the Policy has acquired Surrender Benefit, during the Policy term, you will have the option to take Policy loan, subject to a maximum limit of 80% of the [Surrender value less TB on surrender (if any) less any AIB] + 50% of TB on surrender (if any). Loan interest rate applicable for the loan will be as decided by the company from time-to-time. The current loan rate of interest is 10% p.a. compounding half-yearly. On death, surrender or maturity, the outstanding policy loan plus interest, as on the date of death/ surrender /maturity, will be deducted from the death/ surrender /maturity benefit payable. Each survival benefit will be adjusted against the outstanding loan & interest. The policy will be foreclosed under the following circumstances: i) For other than in-force and fully paid-up policies: If, at any time (during the policy term), the outstanding policy loan and interest exceeds the surrender value, then, the company will inform the policyholder for payment of interest-due and/or full/part repayment with the notice period of 30-days and, at the end of notice period, the policy will be foreclosed and any surrender value will be adjusted towards the outstanding loan plus interest. ii) For in-force or fully paid-up policies: The policy will not be foreclosed on the ground of outstanding loan amount including interest exceeds the surrender value. Note: The loan interest rate will be benchmarked to the G-Sec based on the information from Financial Benchmark India Private Ltd (FBIL). It will be equal to [10-year G-Sec yield PLUS 2%] rounded-up to the next full interest rate. The loan interest rate will be reviewed on an annual basis. Any change in bases used for determination of applicable interest rate will be subject to prior approval of IRDAI. Termination a) This risk cover of the Life Assured shall, immediately and automatically, terminate on the earliest occurrence of any of the following events: 1. On the date of death of the Life Assured, in case Goal protect benefit is not opted 2. On the lapsation of the Policy b) This Policy shall immediately and automatically terminate on the earliest occurrence of any of the following events: 1. On Free Look Cancellation 2. On payment of the last equal instalment w.r.t. the Death Benefit (if taken in instalments), unless Death Benefit in a lump-sum has been taken; provided there are no other benefits available under the Policy. 3. On payment of the Death Benefit in a lump-sum unless Death Benefit in instalments has been taken; provided there are no other benefits available under the Policy. 4. On complete surrender of the Policy and on payment of the Surrender Value. 5. On foreclosure, if at any time, in a Policy that is paid-up, the outstanding loan plus loan interest exceeds the Surrender Value available under the Policy and no payment is made even on the expiry of the notice sent by the company 6. On the expiry of the Revival Period for a lapsed Policy. 7. On the Maturity Date. 8. On refund of eligible Regular Premiums/Surrender Value under suicide clause on suicide of the Life Assured. Grace Period The Grace Period is thirty (30) days for frequencies other than monthly and fifteen (15) days for monthly frequency during which the Policy is considered to be in-force with the risk cover. On the occurrence of death during the Grace Period, the Death Benefit will be payable and the due but unpaid Premium/s upto the date of death will be deducted from the death benefit payable. Free Look Period The policyholder has a free look period of thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the Policy Document, to review the terms and conditions of the Policy and where the Policyholder disagrees to any of those terms & conditions, he has the option to return the Policy to the insurer for cancellation, stating the reasons for his objection, then he shall be entitled to a refund of all the premiums (excluding applicable taxes) paid, subject only to a deduction of a proportionate risk premium for the period of cover and the expenses incurred by the insurer on medical examination of the proposer and stamp duty charges. The request for cancellation of the policy during free look period shall be processed and premium shall be refunded within 7 days of receipt of such request. Suicide Exclusions In case of death of a Life Assured (in a single or joint life policy) due to suicide within 12 months from the date of commencement of risk or the date of latest revival of the policy, whichever is later, then the nominee or beneficiary of the policyholder shall be entitled to receive, the higher of 80% of the Total Premiums paid or the surrender value as on the date of death, provided the policy is in force and the policy shall be terminated. There are no other exclusions other than the suicide clause. Auto Vesting If the policy has been taken on the life of a minor, on attaining the age of majority i.e. 18 years, the policy will vest on him/her. Thereafter, the Life Assured shall become the policyholder who will then be entitled to all the benefits and subject to all liabilities as per the terms and conditions of the policy. Extra benefits and Discounts available in the plan: ŸHigh Premium Mark-up will be available if the annual premium under the policy is 1.5 lac or above. ŸFemale Lives mark-up of 2% will be available on the Benefit Sum Assured. ŸAutopay benefit, loyalty benefit (to existing policyholders), staff, online sales, web aggregator, Partner & worksite mark-ups of upto Rs. 24 per 100 Annualised premium will be added to the Benefit Sum Assured. ŸFamily discount of upto 7% on the first year premium will be available to family members of existing customers ŸMultiple option discount of upto 3% on the first year premium will be applicable if the policyholder has opted more than one product options in the same policy Grievance Redressal Link for registering the grievance with the insurer’s portal: Insurance company grievance portal - https://shorturl.at/HkC2M In case the Policyholder have any query or compliant/grievance, you may contact the Grievance Officer of any nearest Customer Care Centre at Branch Office of the Company during the Company’s office hours from Monday to Saturday (excluding public holidays), 9 am to 7 pm. Alternatively, you may communicate with the Company: By post at: Customer Care Desk, Bajaj Life Insurance Limited Bajaj Insurance House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411006 By Phone at: Customer Care Number: 020-6712 1212 By Email: customercare@bajajlife.com In case the Policyholder are not satisfied with the resolution provided to him by the above office, or have not received any response within fourteen (14) days, or he has any suggestion in respect of this Policy or on the functioning of the office, he may contact the following official for resolution: Grievance Redressal Officer, Bajaj Life Insurance Limited Bajaj Insurance House, Airport Road Yerawada, Pune, District – Pune, Maharashtra -411006 Customer Care Number: 020-6712 1212 Email ID: gro@bajajlife.com If the Policyholder is not satisfied with the response or does not receive a response from the Company within fourteen (14) days, he may approach the IRDAI Grievance Call Centre (IGCC) on the following contact details: By Phone: TOLL FREE NO: 155255, 1800-4254-732 By Email: complaints@irdai.gov.in By post at: Policyholder’s Protection & Grievance Redressal Department – Grievance Redressal Cell Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India Sy. No. 115/1, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad – 500 032 The Policyholder can also register his complaint in the Bima Bharosa Shikayat Nivaran Kendra; https://bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in In case the complaint is not resolved within 30 days or you are not satisfied with the decision/resolution of the Company, you may approach the Insurance Ombudsman. Contact details of Ombudsman: Find your nearest Ombudsman office at https://www.cioins.co.in/ombudsman Statutory Information Assignment: Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 Assignment should be in accordance with provisions of sec 38 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time. Nomination: Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 Nomination should be in accordance with provisions of sec 39 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time. Prohibition of Rebate: Section 41 of the Insurance Act, 1938 Prohibition of Rebate should be in accordance with provisions of section 41 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time. No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement to any person to take out or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the Premium shown on the Policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a Policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the insurer. Any person making default in complying with the provision of this section shall be liable for a penalty that may extend up to ten lakh rupees. Fraud, Misstatement: Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 Fraud & Misstatement would be dealt with in accordance with provisions of Sec 45 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time. Applicability of Goods & Service Tax Goods and Service Tax is charged based on type of Policy communication address of Policyholder. This may change subject to change in rate/state in address of the Policyholder as on date of adjustment. ŸBEWARE OF SPURIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS/FRAUDULENT OFFERS - IRDAI or its officials do not involve in activities like selling insurance policies, announcing bonus or investment of premiums. Public receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint. BJAZ-BR-ECLC-17100/25 Bajaj Life Insurance Limited Regd. Office Address: Bajaj Life Insurance Limited, Bajaj Insurance House, Airport Road, Yerawada,Pune - 411006 IRDAI Reg. No.: 116 | www.bajajlifeinsurance.com | CIN: U66010PN2001PLC015959 Disclamier - This sales literature gives the salient features of the plan only. The Policy document is the conclusive evident of contract and provides in details all the conditions &exclusions related to Bajaj Life ACE. 1 The risk factors of the bonuses projected under the product are not guaranteed. 2 Past performance of the Company doesn't construe any indication of future bonuses 3 The product is subject to the overall performance of the Company in terms of investments, management of expenses, mortality and lapses. For More Information: Kindly consult our “Insurance Consultant” or call us today on the Customer Care Numbers mentioned above. This brochure should be read in conjunction with the Benefit Illustration and Policy Exclusions. Please ask for the same along with the quotation. The Logo of Bajaj Life Insurance Limited is provided on the basis of license given by Bajaj Finserv Limited to use its “Bajaj” Logo. Sales: 022-6124 1800 Service: 020-6712 1212 Mail us :customercare@bajajlife.com Visit us at: www.bajajlifeinsurance.com Bajaj Life ACE UIN : 116N186V03