Smart Protect Plus NEW Most charges returned as Loyalty Additions2 Choose a plan option as per your needs3 A Unit Linked Non-Participating Individual Life Insurance Savings Plan Higher insurance cover along with market-linked returns1 1 Higher Sum Assured multiple available subject to underwriting 2 Loyalty Additions available under this plan – a) Return of Premium Allocation Charge b) Return of 2X to 3X of Mortality Charge c) Return of FMC d) Return of 2X of Guarantee Charge e) Maturity Booster 3 4 plan options available under the plan – Level Cover, Level Cover with Capital Guarantee, Decreasing Cover and Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee Smart Protect Plus Participating Individual Life Insurance Savings Plan p g g IN THIS POLICY, THE INVESTMENT RISK IN INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO IS BORNE BY THE POLICYHOLDER. THE LINKED INSURANCE PRODUCTS DO NOT OFFER ANY LIQUIDITY DURING THE FIRST FIVE YEARS OF THE CONTRACT. THE POLICYHOLDER WILL NOT BE ABLE TO SURRENDER OR WITHDRAW THE MONIES INVESTED IN LINKED INSURANCE PRODUCTS COMPLETELY OR PARTIALLY TILL THE END OF THE FIFTH YEAR. Secure your family’s future with the power of enhanced protection and market-linked returns 2 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus KEY FEATURES            Smart Protect Plus A Unit Linked Non-Participating Individual Life Insurance Savings Plan Parameters Minimum Maximum Age at Entry Age at Maturity Policy Term Life Assured: 0 years (30 days) Proposer: 18 years 25 years 25 years Option A: Level Cover Option B: Level Cover with Capital Guarantee Option C: Decreasing Cover Option D: Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee Premium Payment Term Limited Pay (5 to 20 years) Regular Pay (25 to 99 – Age at Entry) Limited Pay (5 to 20 years) Plan Option Life Assured: 60 years Proposer: No Limit 99 years 99 – Age at Entry Premium Payment Term ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA You always dream a bright future for you and your loved ones. Be it children’s education, retirement planning or long-term wealth creation, you plan every bit of this uncertain future to make it more certain and predictable. You make sure that your money grows and also, the wealth you create is protected against any potential downfall, so that your loved ones’ dreams are fulfilled, even when you are not there to witness it. A Life Insurance plan offers financial protection against such unforeseen events. We at HDFC Life understand this and are proud to present HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus, a Unit Linked Life Insurance Plan that addresses your protection in the form of a life cover and also provides you long-term savings needs. Option to choose a cover which fits your needs and maximises your benefits with 4 plan options Option to reduce your death benefit after a chosen period under Decreasing Cover and Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee plan options Get Guaranteed Maturity Benefit under Level Cover with Capital Guarantee and Decre- asing Cover with Capital Guarantee plan options Choice of 10$ fund options with unlimited free switching* Return of 2X to 3X Mortality Charge from 11th policy year Return of Premium Allocation Charge from policy year 10 to 17 years Return of Fund Management Charge (FMC) on Maturity or age 85 whichever earlier Return of 2X of Guarantee Charge on Maturity^ Maturity Booster upto 2x of Annualized Premium Systematic Transfer Plan strategy for advantage of Rupee Cost Averaging Premium payment options of Limited pay and Regular Pay *available under Level Cover and Decreasing Cover plan options ^available under Level Cover with Capital Guarantee and Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee plan options $8 Funds available under Level Cover and Decreasing Cover plan options, 2 Funds available under Level Cover with Capital Guarantee and Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee plan options HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 3 Parameters Minimum Maximum Premium Payment Frequency Annual Half-Yearly Quarterly Monthly Rs. 50,000 Rs. 25,000 Rs. 12,500 Rs. 4,500 Limited Pay/ Regular Pay Minimum Instalment Premium Instalment Premium Premium Payment Frequency Sum Assured Minimum Basic Sum Assured shall be: Minimum Sum Assured on Top- up Premium shall be: Entry Age of Life Assured Entry Age of Life Assured Below 18 years 18 years to 49 years 50 years and above Below 50 years 50 years and above 1.25 x Top Up premium 1.10 x Top Up premium 10 x AP 7 x AP 5 x AP Minimum Sum Assured Minimum Sum Assured Annual, Half-Yearly, Quarterly, Monthly As per Board Approved Underwriting Policy (BAUP) As per Board Approved Underwriting Policy (BAUP) Top-Up Premium: Rs. 5,000 per Top-Up* *Total top-up premiums paid, at any point of time during the policy term shall not exceed the sum total of the regular premiums paid at that point of time. For the monthly premium payment mode, we may accept three months’ premiums in advance on the date of commencement of policy, as a prerequisite to allow monthly mode of premium payment. The product can also be purchased online via our website. All ages are expressed as on last birthday. The date on which the insurance coverage under the Policy commences. For Minor Life Assured: If Age of the Life Assured is less than or equal to 17 years, the life insurance cover under the Policy will commence: a) Either immediately from Policy Commencement Date or b) Upto 2 years after the Policy Commencement Date or on Policy Anniversary after attainment of maturity, whichever is earlier. Under option ‘b’, there shall be no mortality charge levied till the Risk Commencement Date. Please refer the policy schedule for the Risk Commencement Date. In case of death prior to Risk Commen- ement Date, the insurance cover shall be restricted to the payment of fund value. In case of death on or after Risk Commencement Date, death benefit will be as per applicable plan option. In all cases, the relationship between the proposer and life assured shall be granted to the extent of insurable interest only. PLAN OPTIONS This product offers 4 plan options that you can choose from depending on your Protection and Savings needs: A. Level Cover - This plan option provides a level cover throughout the policy term. B. Level Cover with Capital Guarantee - This plan option provides a level cover throughout the policy term. The policyholder also get a Capital Guarantee, which is in the form of Guaranteed Maturity Benefit. C. Decreasing Cover - Under this plan option, the cover would decrease with the policy year. This is subject to the ‘Level Cover Period’, chosen by the policyholder at policy inception. D. Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee - Under this plan option, the cover would decrease with the policy year. This is subject to the ‘Level Cover Period’, chosen by the policyholder at pol- icy inception. The policyholder also get a Capital Guarantee, which is in the form of Guaranteed Maturity Benefit. The policyholder can choose any one of the above plan options, A, B, C & D at the outset. Plan option once chosen, cannot be altered throughout the policy term. Premium and Charges will vary depending upon the plan option chosen. BENEFITS PAYABLE UNDER VARIOUS PLAN OPTIONS: A. Level Cover: This plan option provides a level cover throughout the policy term. “Death Benefit” is payable as a lump sum if life assured dies during the policy term. Subject to Policy being in force and all due premiums have been paid, the Death Benefit payable to the Assignee/ Nominee shall be the highest of the following: i. Sum Assured, less partial withdrawals$ , if any; or ii. Fund value, or iii. 105% of Total Premiums (excluding Top-up premium) Paid up to the date of death For a reduced paid-up Policy, the Death Benefit payable to the Assignee/ Nominee shall be the highest of the following: i. ii. Fund value; or iii. 105% of Total Premiums Paid (excluding Top-up premium) Paid up to the date of death Upon this payment, the policy shall terminate and no further benefit shall be payable. Where, a. Annualized Premium means the premium amount payable in a year excluding the taxes, rider premiums and underwriting extra premium on riders, if any. b. Basic Sum Assured is the amount of cover chosen by the policyholder at inception of the policy in accordance with terms and conditions of the Policy. c. Fund Value is the value obtained by multiplying the number of Units allocated to your Policy by the corresponding price of the Units. d. Total Premiums Paid are the total of all the premiums received, excluding any rider premium and taxes. e. Paid-Up Sum Assured, is the original sum assured multiplied by the total number of premiums paid to the original number of premiums payable as per the terms and conditions of the policy. (Paid Up Sum Assured = Original Sum Assured x Total No. of Premiums Paid / Original No. of Premiums Payable). The benefits payable under this option are defined below: Paid up Sum Assured plus any additional Sum Assured in respect of Top-ups, less partial withdrawals$ made, if any (as detailed below); or $The partial withdrawals to be deducted from the Sum Assured shall be all partial withdrawals (except from the top-up fund value) made during the two-year period immediately preceding the date of death. Death Beneﬁt: 4 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus f. Minimum Basic Sum Assured, is 10 times the Annualized Premium g. Guaranteed Maturity Benefit is the Total Premiums Paid, less Total Partial Withdrawals made (if any) On survival of the Life Assured till the Maturity Date, subject to Policy being in-force on the Matu- rity Date, the risk cover shall cease and Fund Value at Maturity plus Loyalty Additions payable at Maturity, shall be payable to the policyholder as the maturity benefit. Maturity Beneﬁt: HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 5 Note: The rates of returns, i.e., 8% p.a. and 4% p.a. are assumed only for the purpose of illustrating the flow of benefits if the returns are at this level. It should not be interpreted that the returns und- er the plan are going to be either 8% p.a. or 4% p.a. This illustration is for a healthy male life. The values shown are for illustrative purpose only. B. Level Cover with Capital Guarantee: This plan option provides a level cover throughout the policy term. The policyholder also gets a Capital Guarantee in the form of Guaranteed Maturity Benefit where, Guaranteed Maturity Benefit is equal to Total Premiums Paid less Total Partial Withdrawals made (if any). “Death Benefit” is payable as a lump sum if life assured dies during the policy term. Subject to Policy being in force and all due premiums have been paid, the Death Benefit payable to the Assignee/ Nominee shall be the highest of the following: a. Sum Assured, less partial withdrawals* if any; or b. Fund value, or c. 105% of Total Premiums (excluding Top-up premium) Paid up to the date of death a. Paid up Sum Assured plus any additional Sum Assured in respect of Top-ups, less partial Total Premiums Paid: INR 10,00,000 You can also take your fund value at maturity in periodical instalments under settlement option. Please refer Settlement Option section below for more details. Example: Mr. Kumar, a 30 years old gentleman, buys the Option A (Level Cover) of HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus for a policy term of 40 years, and a premium payment term of 10 years. He chooses a cover of INR 1,00,00,000 by paying a premium of INR 1,00,000 annually. Mr. Kumar survives till the maturity (end of policy term) and receives a lump sum benefit of INR 1,12,77,038 at assumed investment return of 8% p.a., or INR 36,17,425 at assumed investment return of 4% p.a. However, if Mr. Kumar dies during the policy term, his nominee will receive a lump sum benefit of INR 1,00,00,000 or Fund Value or 105% of the total premiums paid, whichever is higher, and the policy will terminate. Upon this payment, the policy shall terminate and no further benefits will be payable. The benefits payable under this option are defined below: Death Beneﬁt: For a reduced paid-up Policy, the Death Benefit payable to the Assignee/ Nominee shall be the highest of the following: 0 1 2 3 7 8 9 10 40 ` ` ` ` ` ` ` Policy Term (40 years) Policy Starts On survival of the Life Assured till maturity, a lumpsum benefit of INR 1,12,77,038* or INR 36,17,425# will be payable ` Annualized Premium INR 1,00,000 *at assumed investment return of 8% p.a. #at assumed investment return of 4% p.a. Fund Value includes Loyalty Addition at maturity. ` withdrawals* made, if any (as detailed below); or b. Fund value; or c. 105% of Total Premiums (excluding Top-up premium) Paid up to the date of death *The partial withdrawals to be deducted from the Sum Assured shall be all partial with- drawals (except from the top-up fund value) made during the two-year period immediately preceding the date of death. Upon this payment, the policy shall terminate and no further benefit shall be payable. Upon this payment, the policy shall terminate and no further benefits will be payable. You can also take your fund value at maturity in periodical instalments under settlement option. Please refer Settlement Option section below for more details. Example: Mr. Kumar, a 30 years old gentleman, buys the Option B Level Cover with Capital Guara- ntee of HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus for a policy term of 40 years, and a premium payment term of 10 years. He chooses a cover of INR 1,00,00,000 by paying a premium of INR 1,00,000 annually. Mr. Kumar survives till the maturity (end of policy term) and receives a lump sum benefit of INR 1,05,86,834 at assumed rate of return of 8% p.a., or INR 36,19,752 at assumed investment return of 4% p.a. Now say, at maturity, the market plummets and the fund value (including loyalty additions at maturity) falls below INR 10,00,000. But even then, Mr. Kumar will get INR 10,00,000 (assuming he hasn’t made any partial withdrawals during the policy term) in lumpsum, as the Guaranteed Maturity Benefit. Total Premiums Paid: INR 10,00,000 0 1 2 3 7 8 9 10 40 ` ` ` ` ` ` ` Policy Term (40 years) Policy Starts ` Annualized Premium INR 1,00,000 *at assumed investment return of 8% p.a. #at assumed investment return of 4% p.a. Note: The rates of returns, i.e., 8% p.a. and 4% p.a. are assumed only for the purpose of illustrating the flow of benefits if the returns are at this level. It should not be interpreted that the returns un- der the plan are going to be either 8% p.a. or 4% p.a. The illustration is for a healthy male life. The values shown are for illustrative purpose only. Maturity Beneﬁt: On survival of the Life Assured till the Maturity Date, subject to Policy being in-force on the Ma- turity Date, the risk cover shall cease and Maturity Benefit shall be payable to the policyholder. The maturity benefit will be calculated as higher of (Fund Value at Maturity plus Loyalty Additions payable at Maturity or Guaranteed Maturity Benefit), where Guaranteed Maturity Benefit is equal to Total Premiums Paid, less Total Partial Withdrawals made (if any). However, if Mr. Kumar dies during the policy term, his nominee will receive a lump sum benefit of INR 1,00,00,000 or Fund Value or 105% of Total Premiums Paid, whichever is higher, and the policy will terminate. On survival of the Life Assured till maturity, a lumpsum benefit of INR 1,05,86,834* or INR 36,19,752# will be payable 6 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus Fund Value includes Loyalty Addition at maturity. C. Decreasing Cover: Under this plan option, the cover would decrease every policy year, subject to the ‘Level Cover Period’, chosen by the policyholder at policy inception. ‘Level Cover Period’ is the period of initial policy year(s) during which cover would remain level. The Level Cover Period can be between Premium Payment Term to (Policy Term less 5) years. From the policy year following the ‘Level Cover Period’, the cover would decrease uniformly every year, subject to it being more than or equal to the Minimum Basic Sum Assured at any point of time. The Sum Assured for any policy year throughout the policy term will be calculated as below: During Level Cover Period: Sum Assured (t) = Basic Sum Assured Post Level Cover Period: Sum Assured (t) = Max of a) Sum Assured (t-1) – (Basic Sum Assured ÷ Reduction Term), or b) Minimum Basic Sum Assured Where, • t = policy year • Reduction Term = Policy Term - No Cover Period No Cover Period is the period between Risk Commencement Date & Policy Commencement Date in case of minor lives. The below table gives policy year wise cover amount (in Lac) for a few sample cases: Policy Term 30 years 30 years 40 years 40 years Annual Premium 0.5 lac 1 lac 0.30 lac 1 lac Basic Sum Assured 20 lac 50 lac 7.5 lac 50 lac Level Cover Period 5 years 15 years 20 years 30 years Policy Year Example 1 Example 2 Example 3 Example 4 1 20.0 50.0 7.5 50.0 5 20.0 50.0 7.5 50.0 6 19.2 50.0 7.5 50.0 10 16.0 50.0 7.5 50.0 15 12.0 50.0 7.5 50.0 16 11.2 46.7 7.5 50.0 20 8.0 33.3 7.5 50.0 21 7.2 30.0 7.1 50.0 25 5.0 16.7 5.6 50.0 30 5.0 10.0 3.8 50.0 31 3.4 45.0 35 3.0 25.0 40 3.0 10.0 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 7 0 1 2 3 7 8 9 10 40 ` ` ` ` ` ` ` Policy Term (40 years) Policy Starts On survival of the Life Assured till maturity, a lumpsum benefit of INR 1,20,62,203* or INR 50,01,111# will be payable ` Annualized Premium INR 1,00,000 *at assumed investment return of 8% p.a. #at assumed investment return of 4% p.a. Level Cover period (30 years) 30 i. Sum Assured, less partial withdrawals*, if any; or ii. Fund value, or iii. 105% of total Premiums (excluding Top-up premium) paid up to the date of death i. Paid up Sum Assured plus any additional Sum Assured in respect of Top-ups, less partial withdrawals* made, if any (as detailed below); or ii. Fund value; or iii. 105% of total Premiums (excluding Top-up premium) paid up to the date of death *The partial withdrawals to be deducted from the Sum Assured shall be all partial withdrawals (except from the top-up fund value) made during the two-year period immediately preceding the date of death. You can also take your fund value at maturity in periodical instalments under settlement option. Please refer Settlement Option section below for more details. Example: Mr. Kumar, a 30 years old gentleman, buys the Option C Decreasing Cover of HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus for a policy term of 40 years, a premium payment term of 10 years, and a level cover period of 30 years. He chooses a cover of INR 1,00,00,000 by paying a premium of INR 1,00,000 annually. Mr. Kumar survives till the maturity (end of policy term) and receives a lump sum benefit of INR 1,20,62,203 at assumed rate of return of 8% p.a., or INR 50,01,111 at assumed investment return of 4% p.a. including loyalty additions at maturity. However, if Mr. Kumar dies in the 25th policy year (during the level cover period), at age 55, his nominee will receive a lump sum benefit of INR 1,00,00,000 or or Fund Value or 105% of Total Premiums Paid, whichever is higher, and the policy will terminate. But if Mr. Kumar dies in the 35th policy year (post the level cover period), at age 65, his nominee will receive a lump sum benefit of INR 50,00,000 or Fund Value or 105% of Total Premiums Paid, whichever is higher, and the policy will terminate. Total Premiums Paid: INR 10,00,000 The benefits payable under this option are defined below: Death Beneﬁt: Maturity Beneﬁt: “Death Benefit” is payable as a lump sum if life assured dies during the policy term. Subject to Policy being in force and all due premiums have been paid, the Death Benefit payable to the Assignee/ Nominee shall be the highest of the following: For a reduced paid-up Policy, the Death Benefit payable to the Assignee/ Nominee shall be the highest of the following: In addition to the death benefit above, Top up death benefit if any, calculated as higher of Top up sum assured and Top up fund value shall also be payable Upon this payment, the policy shall terminate and no further benefit shall be payable. On survival of the Life Assured till the Maturity Date, subject to Policy being in-force on the Maturity Date, the risk cover shall cease and Fund Value at Maturity plus Loyalty Additions payable at Maturity, shall be payable to the policyholder, as the maturity benefit Upon this payment, the policy shall terminate and no further benefits will be payable 8 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus Fund Value includes Loyalty Addition at maturity. D. Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee - ‘Level Cover Period’ is the period of initial policy year(s) during which cover would remain level. The Level Cover Period can be between Premium Payment Term to (Policy Term less 5) years. From the policy year following the ‘Level Cover Period’, the cover would decrease uniformly every year, subject to it being more than or equal to the Minimum Basic Sum Assured at any point of time. The Sum Assured for any policy year throughout the policy term will be calculated as below: During Level Cover Period: Sum Assured (t) = Basic Sum Assured Post Level Cover Period: Sum Assured (t) = Max of a) Sum Assured (t-1) – (Basic Sum Assured ÷ Reduction Term), or b) Minimum Basic Sum Assured Where, • t = policy year • Reduction Term = Policy Term - No Cover Period The below table gives policy year wise cover amount (in Lac) for a few sample cases: Policy Term 30 years 30 years 40 years 40 years Annual Premium 0.5 lac 1 lac 0.30 lac 1 lac Basic Sum Assured 20 lac 50 lac 7.5 lac 50 lac Level Cover Period 5 years 15 years 20 years 30 years Policy Year Example 1 Example 2 Example 3 Example 4 1 20.0 50.0 7.5 50.0 5 20.0 50.0 7.5 50.0 6 19.2 50.0 7.5 50.0 10 16.0 50.0 7.5 50.0 15 12.0 50.0 7.5 50.0 16 11.2 46.7 7.5 50.0 20 8.0 33.3 7.5 50.0 21 7.2 30.0 7.1 50.0 25 5.0 16.7 5.6 50.0 30 5.0 10.0 3.8 50.0 31 3.4 45.0 35 3.0 25.0 40 3.0 10.0 - Note: The rates of returns, i.e., 8% p.a. and 4% p.a. are assumed only for the purpose of illustrating the flow of benefits if the returns are at this level. It should not be interpreted that the returns under the plan are going to be either 8% p.a. or 4% p.a. The illustration is for a healthy male life. The values shown are for illustrative purpose only Under this plan option, the cover would decrease every policy year, subject to the ‘Level Cover Period’, chosen by the policyholder at policy inception. This option also provides Capital Guarantee in the form of Guaranteed Maturity Benefit where,Guaranteed Maturity Benefit is equal to Total Premiums Paid less Total Partial Withdrawals made (if any). HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 9 No Cover Period is the period between Risk Commencement Date & Policy Commencement Date in case of minor lives. The benefits payable under this option are defined below: Death Beneﬁt: Maturity Beneﬁt: i. Sum Assured, less partial withdrawals*, (if any); or ii. Fund value, or iii. 105% of total Premiums (excluding Top-up premium) paid up to the date of death i. Paid up Sum Assured plus any additional Sum Assured in respect of Top-ups, less partial withdrawals* made, if any (as detailed below); or ii. Fund value; or iii. 105% of Total Premiums Paid (excluding Top-up premium) Paid up to the date of death *The partial withdrawals to be deducted from the Sum Assured shall be all partial withdr- awals (except from the top-up fund value) made during the two-year period immediately prece- ding the date of death. “Death Benefit” is payable as a lump sum if life assured dies during the policy term. Subject to Policy being in force and all due premiums have been paid, the Death Benefit payable to the Assignee/ Nominee shall be the highest of the following: For a reduced paid-up Policy, the Death Benefit payable to the Assignee/ Nominee shall be the highest of the following: Upon this payment, the policy shall terminate and no further benefit shall be payable. Upon this payment, the policy shall terminate and no further benefits will be payable. You can also take your fund value at maturity in periodical instalments under settlement option. Please refer Settlement Option section below for more details. Now say, at maturity (including loyalty additions at maturity), the market plummets and the fund value falls below INR 10,00,000. But even then, Mr. Kumar will get INR 10,00,000 (assuming he hasn’t made any partial withdrawals during the policy term) in lumpsum, as the Guaranteed Maturity Benefit. Example: Mr. Kumar, a 30 years old gentleman, buys the Option D Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee of HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus for a policy term of 40 years, a premium payment term of 10 years, and a level cover period of 30 years. He chooses a cover of INR 1,00,00,000 by paying a premium of INR 1,00,000 annually. Mr. Kumar survives till the maturity (end of policy term) and receives a lump sum benefit of INR 1,15,93,327 at assumed rate of return of 8% p.a., or INR 50,51,428 at assumed investment return of 4% p.a. However, if Mr. Kumar dies in the 25th policy year (during the level cover period), at age 55, his nominee will receive a lump sum benefit of INR 1,00,00,000 or Fund Value or 105% of total premium, whichever is higher, and the policy will terminate. But if Mr. Kumar dies in the 35th policy year (post the level cover period), at age 65, his nominee will receive a lump sum benefit of INR 50,00,000 or Fund Value or 105% of total premium, whichever is higher, and the policy will terminate. On survival of the Life Assured till the Maturity Date, subject to Policy being in-force on the Maturity Date, the risk cover shall cease and Maturity Benefit shall be payable to the policyholder. The maturity benefit will be calculated as higher of (Fund Value at Maturity plus Loyalty Additions payable at Maturity or Guaranteed Maturity Benefit), where Guaranteed Maturity Benefit is equal to Total Premiums Paid, less Total Partial Withdrawals made (if any). 10 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 0 1 2 3 7 8 9 10 40 ` ` ` ` ` ` ` Policy Term (40 years) Level Cover period (30 years) Policy Starts On survival of the Life Assured till maturity, a lumpsum benefit of INR 1,15,93,327* or INR 50,51,428# will be payable ` Annualized Premium INR 1,00,000 *at assumed investment return of 8% p.a. #at assumed investment return of 4% p.a. 30 Total Premiums Paid: INR 10,00,000 Note: The rates of returns, i.e., 8% p.a. and 4% p.a. are assumed only for the purpose of illustrating the flow of benefits if the returns are at this level. It should not be interpreted that the returns under the plan are going to be either 8% p.a. or 4% p.a. The illustration is for a healthy male life. The values shown are for illustrative purpose only HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 11 Fund Value includes Loyalty Addition at maturity. LOYALTY ADDITIONS The product offers loyalty additions at different points during the policy term. Where extra units are allocated, the allocation between the funds in the same proportion as the value of total units held in each fund at the time of allocation. All additions shall continue till the policy is in force and all due premiums till date have been paid. The additions will not be applicable for the charges deducted towards additional top-up premiums. The different loyalty additions offered are detailed below: 1. Return of 2X to 3X Mortality Charge: i. The product offers a return of 2 to 3 times of the mortality charges starting from policy year 11. The addition is in the form of extra units. ii. At the end of each month starting from policy year 11, a multiple (2X or 3X) of the mortality charge (excluding underwriting extra premium and taxes), deducted in the month which is 120 months prior shall be added to the fund. iii. iv. The multiple for return of mortality charge would vary depending on the policy year and is as given below: Policy Year Return of Mortality Charge Multiple 11 to 24 2X 25 and above 3X v. This shall continue until end of the policy term and does not include the settlement period. 2. Return of Premium Allocation Charge: ‰ The premium allocation charges (excluding taxes) collected shall be added back in the form of allocation of extra units. The addition will happen at the end of each of the policy year. ‰ For policy term greater than 25 years, in addition to the Return of Premium allocation charge from year 10 to 17 as per the above table, Premium allocation charge shall be returned from year 25 to 31 as per the below table: E.g., 2 times of the mortality charge deducted in the first policy month shall be added back in the 121st month, 2 times of the mortality charge deducted in the second policy month shall be added back in the 122nd month and so on until the end of the policy term. 12 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus Policy Year Return on Premium Allocation Charges 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 1 X of 1st year Premium allocation charges 1 X of 1st year Premium allocation charges 1 X of 2nd year Premium allocation charges 1 X of 2nd year Premium allocation charges 1 X of 3rd year Premium allocation charges 1 X of 3rd year Premium allocation charges 1 X of 4th year Premium allocation charges 1 X of 4th year Premium allocation charges Policy Year Return on Premium Allocation Charges 25 27 29 31 1 X of 1st year Premium allocation charges 1 X of 2nd year Premium allocation charges 1 X of 3rd year Premium allocation charges 1 X of 4th year Premium allocation charges 3. Return of Fund Management Charge (FMC): Sum total of FMC charges (excluding taxes) collected will become payable at end of policy year on attainment of age 85 or end of policy term whichever is earlier. Any FMC collected beyond age 85 years shall not be returned. i. HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 13 ii. Return of FMC shall not be applicable where Sum Assured is Less than or equal to 30 X Annu- alized Premium 4. Return of 2X of Guarantee Charge: i. This will be available only under Option B (Level Cover with Capital Guarantee) and Option D (Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee). ii. At maturity, 2 times of sum total of guarantee charges (excluding taxes) collected throughout the policy term will become payable. 5. Maturity Booster i. At maturity, a multiple of the Annualized Premium (as given below) shall become payable: NON-FORFEITURE BENEFITS A) Discontinuance of Policy due to Non-Payment of Premiums Under this plan you get a grace period from your premium due date to pay your premiums. This plan has a grace period of 15 days for monthly mode and 30 days for other modes. You are ex- pected to pay your premiums through-out the policy term. During the grace period, the policy is considered to be in-force with the risk cover without any interruption. Discontinuance of the policy during lock-in period: a) Upon expiry of the grace period, in case of discontinuance of policy due to non-payment of premium, the fund value after deducting the applicable discontinuance charges shall be cred- ited to the discontinued policy fund and the risk cover and rider cover, if any, shall cease. b) Such discontinuance charges shall not exceed the charges, stipulated in “Charges” section of this document and in compliance with clause 2(A)(vi)(c)(V) of Schedule-I of IRDAI (Insurance Products) Regulation, 2024 as amended from time to time. All such discontinued policies shall be provided a revival period of three years from date of first unpaid premium. On such disconti- nuance, the company shall communicate the status of the policy, within three months of the first unpaid premium, to you and provide the option to revive the policy within the revival period of three years. 1. In case the policyholder opts to revive but does not revive the policy during the revival period, the proceeds of the discontinued policy fund shall be paid to the policyholder at the end of the revival period or lock-in period whichever is later. In respect of revival period ending after lock-in period, the policy will remain in discontinuance fund till the end of revival period. The Fund management charges of discontinued fund will be applicable during this period and no other charges will be applied. 2. In case the policyholder does not exercise the option as set out above, the policy shall continue without any risk cover and rider cover, if any, and the policy fund shall remain invested in the discontinuance fund. At the end of the lock-in period, the proceeds of the discontinuance fund shall be paid to the policyholder and the policy shall terminate. 3. However, the policyholder has an option to surrender the policy anytime and proceeds of the discontinued policy shall be payable at the end of lock-in period or date of surrender whichever is later. The product shall have a lock-in period of ﬁve years from the date of inception of the policy. Premium Payment Term (PPT) 5 1x 6 1x 7 1x 8 2x 9 2x 10 and above 2x Loyalty Addition Factor at Maturity (x times of Annualized Premium) Maturity Booster shall not be applicable where Sum Assured is Less than or equal to 30 X Annuali- zed Premium. The minimum guaranteed interest rate applicable to the ‘Discontinued Policy Fund’ shall be as per the prevailing regulations and is currently 4% p.a. The proceeds of the discontinued policy shall be paid only upon completion of the lock-in period. Proceeds of the discontinued policies means the fund value as on the date the policy was dis- continued, after addition of interest computed at the interest rate stipulated as above. Discontinuance of the policy after the lock-in period: a) Upon expiry of the grace period, in case of discontinuance of policy due to non-payment of premium after lock-in period, the policy shall be converted into a reduced paid up policy with the paid-up sum assured as stated under clause 4(B)(a)(2)(ii) of Schedule-I of IRDAI (Insurance Products) Regulations, 2024 i.e., original sum assured multiplied by a ratio of “total period for which premiums have already been paid” to the “maximum period for which premiums were originally payable”. The policy shall continue to be in reduced paid-up status without rider cover, if any. All charges as per terms and conditions of the policy shall be deducted during the revival period. However, the mortality charges shall be deducted based on the reduced paid up sum assured only. b) On such discontinuance, the company shall communicate the status of the policy, within three months of the first unpaid premium, to the policyholder and provide the following options: 1. To revive the policy within the revival period of three years, or 2. To completely withdraw of the policy. c) In case the policyholder opts for (1) above but does not revive the policy during the revival period, the fund value shall be paid to the policyholder at the end of the revival period. d) In case you do not exercise any option as set out above, the policy shall continue to be in reduced paid up status. At the end of the revival period the proceeds of the policy fund shall be paid to the policyholder and the policy shall terminate. e) All charges as per terms and conditions of the policy may be deducted during the revival period. f) However, the policyholder has an option to surrender the policy anytime and proceeds of the policy fund shall be payable. B) Revival of Discontinued Policies Revival of a Discontinued Policy during lock-in Period: a) Where the policyholder revives the policy, the policy shall be revived restoring the risk cover, along with the investments made in the segregated funds as chosen by the policyholder, out of the discontinued fund, less the applicable charges as in sub-section (b)(ii) below, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and Board Approved Underwriting Policy (BAUP). b) At the time of revival: 1. all due and unpaid premiums which have not been paid shall be payable without charging any interest or fee. 2. policy administration charge and premium allocation charge as applicable during the discontinuance period shall be levied. Guarantee charges, if applicable during the discontinuance period, shall be deducted provided the guarantee continues to be applicable. No other charges shall be levied. 3. the discontinuance charges deducted at the time of discontinuance of the policy shall be added back to the fund. Revival of a Discontinued Policy after lock-in Period: (1) Where the policyholder revives the policy, subject to restoring the original risk cover in ac- cordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and Board Approved Underwriting Policy (BAUP). (2) At the time of revival: a. all due and unpaid premiums under base plan which have not been paid shall be payable without charging any interest or fee. You also have the option to revive the rider. The revival period for this product is three years from date of first unpaid premium. 14 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus Bond Fund ULIF05 501/08/ 13DivrEqty Fd101 0% to 40% 0% to 60% 0% to 40% 40% to 100% 60% to 100% - Very High Moderate Fund Name SFIN Details Money Market Instruments, Cash Deposits*, Liquid mutual funds** Govt. Secu- rities, Fixed Income Instruments & Bonds Equity & Equity Related Instru- ments Asset Class Fund Composition Risk & Return Rating b. premium allocation charge as applicable shall be levied. The guarantee charges shall be deducted, if guarantee continues to be applicable. c. No other charges shall be levied. CHOOSE YOUR INVESTMENT STRATEGY HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus provides you different fund options, giving you complete control over your money. Each fund has its own asset allocation structure. Equity based funds invest in stock markets while debt-based funds invest primarily in safe and liquid instruments like bonds and government se- curities for secured growth. You can decide your allocation ratio between these funds and also switch between funds using fund switching option at any time. A. For Plan Option A (Level Cover) and Plan Option C (Decreasing Cover) For Option A (Level Cover) and Option C (Decreasing Cover), the following 8 fund options are available under the product. Policyholder may choose to put his/her premiums in one or more of these funds in the proportion he/she desires and can change this allocation during the policy term. This is a unit linked plan; the premiums you pay in this plan are subject to investment risks associated with the capital markets. The unit prices of the funds may go up or down, reflecting changes in the capital markets. Diversified Equity Fund To generate long term capital app- reciation by investing in high potential companies across the market cap spectrum ULIF05 601/08/ 13Bond Funds101 Active alloca- tion across all fixed income instruments HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 15 Fund Name SFIN Details Money Market Instruments, Cash Deposits*, Liquid mutual funds** Govt. Secu- rities, Fixed Income Instruments & Bonds Equity & Equity Related Instru- ments Asset Class Fund Composition Risk & Return Rating Equity Advantage Fund ULIF06 723/03/ 18Eqty AdvtFd101 0% to 20% 0% to 10% 0% to 20% 0% to 10% 90% to 100% Very High 80% to 100% Very High Long term capital growth through diversified investments in companies across the market capitalization spectrum. Upto 20% of the fund may be invested in Fixed income instruments, money market instruments, cash, deposits and Liquid mutual funds. Long term capital growth by investing predominantly in mid-cap companies. The fund may invest upto 25% of the portfolio in stocks outside the mid-cap index capitalization range. Upto 10% of the fund may be invested in Fixed income instruments, money market instruments, cash, deposits and Liquid mutual funds. Discovery Fund ULIF06 618/01/ 18Discvry Fnd101 16 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus Fund Name SFIN Details Money Market Instruments, Cash Deposits*, Liquid mutual funds** Govt. Secu- rities, Fixed Income Instruments & Bonds Equity & Equity Related Instru- ments Asset Class Fund Composition Risk & Return Rating HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 17 Flexi Cap Fund ULIF07114 07/23 Flexi CapFd101 To generate superior long term returns through inve- stment in equities of companies in the large, mid and small cap segments. 0% to 20% 0% to 20% 80% to 100% Very High Dynamic Advantage Fund ULIF08028/ 02/25Dyna micFnd101 To generate long-term capital appreciation from a mix of equity debt investments and make dynamic asset allocation choices between equities and bonds to capture the strategic opportunities in markets based on relative valuations 0% to 50% 0% to 50% 50% to 100% Moderate Fund Name SFIN Details Money Market Instruments, Cash Deposits*, Liquid mutual funds** Govt. Secu- rities, Fixed Income Instruments & Bonds Equity & Equity Related Instru- ments Asset Class Fund Composition Risk & Return Rating 18 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus To generate longterm capital appreciation by investing in a diversified portfolio of equity and equity related securities that are likely to benefit directly or indirectly from India’s domestic consumption growth story. The fund may use various derivative instruments, as permitted under applic- able Regulati- ons, to calibr- ate the risks in the portfolio. - India Con sumption Advantage Fund ULIF08421/ 11/25InCns mAdFd101 0% to20% 0% to 20% 80% to 100% High Long term capital appreciation through investment in select companies across market capitalization which conduct business in socially and environmenta- lly responsible manner while maintaining governance standards ULIF07019/ 07/21Sustnb lEqF101 0% to 20% 0% to 20% 80% to 100% Very high Sustainable Equity Fund B. For Plan Option B (Level Cover with Capital Guarantee) and Plan Option D (Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee) For the Capital Guarantee options, i.e., Option B (Level Cover with Capital Guarantee) and Option D (Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee), premium received will be allocated in ‘Capital Growth Fund’ and in the ‘Capital Secure Fund’ only. The allocation proportion and any rebalancing in these funds will be solely determined by us. Capital Growth Fund Capital Secure Fund ULIF06 301/04/15 CapGrwth Fd101 ULIF06401/ 04/15Cap SecFund 101 0% to 20% 0% to 20% 0% to 20% 80% to 100% 80% to 100% - Very High Moderate To generate long term capital appreciation through investments in companies, money market instruments income securities Higher potential returns due to higher duration and credit exposure *Investment in Deposits will be in line with the IRDAI regulations and guidelines. The current limit for investment in Deposits is 0 - 5%. **Investment in Mutual Funds will be made as per Mutual Fund limits prescribed by IRDAI regulations and guidelines. As per (IRDAI (Actuarial, Finance and Investment Functions ofInsurers) Regulations, 2024 Master Circular), the Investment limit in Mutual Funds is 5% of Investment assets. This will apply at overall level and at SFIN level, the maximum exposure shall not exceed 15%. Fund Name SFIN Details Money Market Instruments, Cash Deposits*, Liquid mutual funds** Govt. Secu- rities, Fixed Income Instruments & Bonds Equity & Equity Related Instru- ments Asset Class Fund Composition Risk & Return Rating 19 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus The asset allocation for the Discontinued Policy Fund (SFIN: ULIF05110/03/11DiscontdPF101) shall be as per the prevailing regulatory requirements. Currently, the asset allocation is as follows: 1. Money Market Instruments: 0% to 100% 2. Government Securities: 0% to 100% You can access the value of policy wise units held by you, through a secured login, as per the format D02 prescribed under IRDAI (Actuarial, Finance and Investment Functions of Insurers) Regulations, 2024. For risk factors please refer Terms & Conditions section below. Systematic Transfer Plan: Under Option A (Level Cover) and Option C (Decreasing Cover), the policyholder can avail You may request a reduction in the Premium Payment Term after paying full premiums for the first 5 policy years, by notifying us. The change in Premium Payment Term will be subject to applicable eligibility criteria. Upon exercising this option: The Sum Assured and Premium payable for the remaining term will continue at the same level as chosen at inception. Policy benefits will be determined in accordance with the revised Premium Payment Term. 1. The Policyholder can allocate all or some part of his premium in Bond Fund and transfer a fixed amount in regular monthly instalments into any one of the following funds: Diversified Equity Fund, Equity Advantage Fund, Discovery Fund, Flexi Cap Fund, Bond Fund, Dynamic Advantage Fund, India Consumption Advantage Fund or Balanced Fund. 2. The transfer will be done in 12 equal instalments. The transfer date can be either 1st or 15th of every month as chosen by you. 3. At the time of transfer, the required number of units will be withdrawn from the fund chosen, at the applicable unit value, and new units will be allocated in the chosen destination fund. 4. The minimum transfer amount is Rs. 5,000. 5. The Systematic Transfer Plan will be regularly processed for the policyholder till the Company is notified, through a written communication, to discontinue the same. Systematic Transfer Plan will not apply if the source Fund Value is less than the chosen transfer amount. 6. No additional charges apply on selecting Systematic Transfer Plan. FLEXIBILITIES A) Switching: Option to switch funds is available under Option A (Level Cover) and Option C (Decreasing Cover) only. Under this option, you have an option to switch your investment or a part thereof from one fund to another fund(s) available under this product during the Policy Term. You can ask us to switch the Funds in which your Units are held. To do this, we will first cancel all of your existing Units. We will then use the proceeds from the cancelled Units, after deducting the applicable charge, to buy Units in your chosen Fund or Funds. You may choose any investment linked Fund which is available to this product and which we have not withdrawn or closed. Switching between funds is allowed for unlimited number of times. There are no Switching Charges applicable under this product. B) Option to Reduce Premium Payment Term (PPT): Systematic Transfer Plan (STP) described as follows         HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 20 C) Premium Redirection: Premium Redirection is available under Option A (Level Cover) and Option C (Decreasing Cover). It allows you to allocate your future premiums to a different fund or set of funds. The Funds in which new Premiums are invested can be changed at any time by You. You can ask for some or all of your future Premiums to be allocated to Units in different fund    E) Top-Up Premium: Any additional payments made by the policyholders on ad hoc basis shall be considered as or set of funds that are available to this product. Premiums will only be applied as per the revised instructions if we accept those instructions before the Cut-off time for that Premium. We will act on instructions to change the Fund choice for future Premiums subject to receipt of all necessary information required to process the change of Fund and our satisfaction that the information received is correct. Premium Re-direction will not be allowed if Systematic Transfer Plan (STP) is chosen. There are no Premium Redirection Charges applicable under this product. D) Partial Withdrawal: Accessing your Money in case of Emergencies top-up premium and treated as single premium for the purpose of providing insurance cover. The policyholder has the option of paying Top-up premiums, provided the policy is in force, subject to all the following conditions: This is only available under Option A (Level Cover) and Option C (Decreasing Cover). Top-Up premiums can be paid as long as all due premiums have been paid. Top-Up premiums are not permitted during the last 5 years of the contract.               The minimum Top-up amount is Rs. 5,000. Acceptance of Top-Up Premium is subject to prevailing underwriting rules. Top-Up premiums can be allocated in any proportion between the funds offered as chosen by the policyholder.     Every Top-Up Premium will have a lock- in period of five years from the date acceptance of such Top-Up premiums except in case of complete surrender of the policy. 21 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus The Policyholder has the option of making partial withdrawals at any time after the first 5 years, subject to the following conditions: The Life Assured is at least 18 years of age. Top-up premiums once paid cannot be withdrawn from the fund for a period of 5 years from the date of payment of the Top-up premium, except in case of complete surrender of the policy. The Policyholder can also submit a request for Systematic (recurring) withdrawals during the policy term. Partial withdrawals made shall be allowed from the fund built up from the top-up premi ums, if any, as long as such fund supports the partial withdrawal and subsequently, the partial withdrawals may be allowed from the fund built up from the base premium. The partial withdrawals with respect to the fund values from the base premiums shall only be counted for the purpose of adjusting the sum assured to be payable on death. Partial withdrawals made from the top-up premiums shall not be deducted for this purpose. The partial withdrawal amount is not less than Rs. 10,000. The partial withdrawals shall not be allowed which would result in termination of a contract. The fund value after the partial withdrawal and any applicable charges (including applica ble taxes and statutory levies, if any) is not less than 300% of base annualised premium for limited and regular pay policies. F) Systematic Withdrawal Plan (SWP): Total top-up premiums paid, at any point of time, during the policy term, shall not exceed the sum total of the regular premiums paid at that point of time. Top-Up premiums are subject to charges as described in Premium Allocation Charge section below.   HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 22 This partial withdrawal facility allows the policyholder to withdraw a pre-determined absolute amount from the fund at pre-determined intervals. Such withdrawals can be a percentage of the fund value or an absolute amount. Following conditions shall apply on SWP: a) This facility can be opted at inception or any time during the policy term. b) The policyholder may modify or opt-out of the facility by notifying the Company at least 30-days prior to the policy anniversary. Policyholder may choose to opt-in again as per the requirements on a later date. c) The SWP amount should not be less than Rs. 1000 for monthly mode, Rs.2500 for quarterly mode, Rs. 5000 for half yearly mode and Rs 10,000 for annual mode. d) All other conditions applicable for partial withdrawals will be applicable for SWP as well. G) Settlement Option: The Policyholder can avail of the settlement option for maturity or death benefit, subject to the following conditions: Settlement option on maturity: Settlement option on death: 1. The policyholder has the option to take the Fund Value plus Top up Fund Value, if any in periodical instalments over a period which may extend to 5 years. 2. The first instalment under settlement option will be payable on the date of maturity. 3. The policyholder shall be given a choice to decide the payout frequency and the settle- ment period at the time of opting for settlement option. The payout frequency and the settlement period once selected cannot be altered any time. The proportion of units redeemed per instalment shall be the number of units available at instalment payout date divided by the number of outstanding instalments. 4. If the Fund Value plus top up fund value, if any at Maturity is greater than or equal to Rs 1 Lakh. 5. In case of settlement period after maturity, the risk cover will be maintained at 105% of the total premiums paid. Accordingly, mortality charges will be deducted. The death benefit shall be the higher of: • Fund value plus top up fund value if any as on date of death • 105% of Total premiums paid 6. The charges levied on the fund value plus top up fund value, if any during the settlement period are the Fund Management Charge, Switching charge and Mortality charges, if any. The company will not levy any other charges. 7. Switches will be allowed during the settlement period. Partial withdrawals will not be allowed during the settlement period. 8. During the settlement period, the policyholder shall have an option to withdraw the entire fund value plus top up fund value if any at any time without levying any charge. 1. In case of death of the Life Assured during the Policy term, the nominee will have the option to receive the Death Benefit in instalments (payable yearly, half yearly, quarterly or monthly) spread over a maximum period of five (5) years 2. The Death Benefit will be unitized in the same Fund(s) and in the same proportion as on the date of intimation of death. However, the nominee has the option to switch fund(s) H) Option to Reduce Sum Assured: At any policy anniversary, the policyholder will have the option to reduce Sum Assured subject to the following conditions: Policy Year Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5+ Annual 12.5% 7% 6% 3.5% 0% Non Annual 12% 6% 3% 3% 0% Premium allocation charge of 2% shall be levied on top-up premiums. This would be subject to the minimum Sum Assured limits under the plan as per the eligibility conditions. If opted under Option C (Decreasing Cover) or Option D (Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee), the Policy will continue with reduced Sum Assured and no further decrease of Sum Assured as per Option C (Decreasing Cover) or Option D (Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee) will be applicable. In case there is/are any rider(s) attached, the Sum Assured under base plan has to be at least equal to the rider Sum Assured. The request for reducing the Sum Assured should be submitted to the Company at least 15 days before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy anniversary. CHARGES Premium Allocation Charge: This charge is a percentage of the Premium appropriated towards Annualized Premium from the Premium received. The balance amount known as Allocation rate constitutes that part of Premium which is utilized to purchase the Units of the Fund in the Policy. This is a charge levied at the time of receipt of Premium. The Premium Allocation charge is capped at 12.5% of Annualized Premium in any year. This is a premium-based charge and depends on year of allocation. After deducting this charge from your premiums, the remainder is invested to buy units. The Premium Allocation Charge is guaranteed for the entire duration of the policy term and shall be levied at the time of receipt of premium.     23 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 3. The amount paid out to Nominee in each instalment will be the outstanding Fund Value and Top Up Fund Value, if any, as at that instalment date divided by the number of out standing instalments. 4. The first instalment of the Death Benefit will be calculated basis NAV as on the date of inti mation of death. 5. Instalment payment will be made by redeeming units from the Fund(s) at the unit price applicable on the instalment date. 6. Investment risk during the settlement period will be borne by the nominee 7. No partial withdrawals (Non-systematic and Systematic) are allowed during the settle ment period 8. Fund switches are allowed during the settlement period 9. Only fund management charge & switching charge, shall be applicable during the settlement period 10. The nominee will have an option to withdraw the Fund Value plus Top up Fund Value, if any completely, anytime during the settlement period. The Fund Value will be calculated as the total number of outstanding units with respect of regular/limited base premium in the Policy multiplied by the net asset value (NAV) as on date of complete withdrawal Plus Top up fund value, if any will be calculated as number of outstanding units with respect of top up premium in the Policy multiplied by the net asset value (NAV) as on date of complete withdrawal 11. During the settlement period, the nominee shall have an option to withdraw the entire fund value plus top up fund value if any at any time without levying any charge. Policy Administration Charge: This charge shall represent the expenses other than those covered by Premium Allocation Charge and the Fund management charge. This charge is levied at the beginning of each Policy month from the Unit Fund by cancelling Units for equivalent amount. This charge is a percentage of the annualized premium. The charge will be deducted monthly to provideadministrationforyourpolicy. This chargewill betakenbycancellingunits proportionately from each of the fund(s) you have chosen. Policy Year % of Annualized Premium charged per month Year 1 to 4 Nil Year 5 and ‰ 0.40% per month for Annual mode ‰ 0.38% per month for Non Annual mode of the annuali- ‰ sed premium increasing at compound rate 5% per annum on each policy anniversary subsequent years The policy administration charge will be subject to the cap of Rs. 500 per month. This charge is guaranteed for the entire duration of the policy term. Fund Management Charge: This charge is levied as a percentage of the value of assets and shall be appropriated by adjusting the NAV. This is a charge levied at the time of computation of NAV, which is done on daily basis. The cap on Fund management Charge in respect of each of the Segregated Fund other than Discontinued Policy Fund shall be 135 basis points per annum. For Discontinued Policy Fund, the cap on Fund management charge shall be 50 basis points per annum. The daily unit price is calculated allowing for deductions for the fund management charge, which is charged daily. 1.35% p.a. of the fund value for all the funds, charged daily. The Fund Management Charge for Discontinued Policy Fund shall be 0.50% p.a. Mortality Charge: This charge is the cost of life insurance cover. It is exclusive of any expense loadings and is levied by cancellation of Units. This charge, if any, shall be levied at the beginning of each Policy month from the Fund. The amount of the charge taken each month depends on your age and level of cover. Mortality Charge is calculated as Sum at Risk (SAR) multiplied by the applicable Mortality Charge Rate for the month, based on the attained age of the Life Assured. The Sum at Risk for Life Assured is Death Benefit less Fund Value. This charge is guaranteed for the entire duration of the policy term. Guarantee Charge: This charge is levied as a percentage of the value of assets and shall be appropriated by adjusting the NAV. This is a charge levied at the time of computation of NAV, which is usually done on daily basis. The cap on guarantee charges shall be 50 basis points. This will be applicable only for Option B (Level Cover with Capital Guarantee) and Option D (Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee). This will be charged on a daily basis, as a % of Fund Value. Every month we levy a charge for providing you with the death benefit in your policy. This charge will be taken by cancelling units proportionately from each of the fund(s) you have chosen. HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 24 Fund Capital Growth Fund SFIN - ULIF06301/04/15CapGrwthFd101 Capital Secure Fund SFIN – ULIF06401/04/15CapSecFund101 Guarantee Charge 0.50% p.a. Surrender or Discontinuance Charge: This is a charge levied on the Unit Fund for individual Unit linked insurance Products where you opt for Surrender or on Discontinuance of the contract as stipulated under these regulations. No Discontinuance charge shall be imposed on Top-Up Premiums. This charge depends on year of discontinuance and your annualised premium. This charge is not applicable from 5th policy year onwards. This charge will be deducted by cancellation of units. No discontinuance charges are applicable on the Top-Up premium Fund Value Partial Withdrawal Charge: Nil Switching Charge: Nil Statutory Charges: The Statutory Charges shall include taxes and levies as applicable on or in respect of this Policy. This tax will be determined by the Government of India in accordance with legislation applicable at the time of providing service. Miscellaneous Charges: Nil Premium Redirection Charge: Nil Discontinuance during the policy year 1 2 3 4 5+ Maximum Discontinuance Charge Annualized Premium up to and including Rs. 50,000 Lower of 20% x (Annualized Premium or Fund Value) but not exceeding Rs. 3000 Lower of 15% x (Annualized Premium or Fund Value) but not exceeding Rs. 2000 Lower of 10% x (Annualized Premium or Fund Value) but not exceeding Rs.1500 Lower of 5% x (Annualized Premium or Fund Value) but not exceeding Rs.1000 NIL Lower of 6% x (Annualized Premium or Fund Value) but not exceeding Rs. 6000 Lower of 4% x (Annualized Premium or Fund Value) but not exceeding Rs. 5000 Lower of 3% x (Annualized Premium or Fund Value) but not exceeding Rs.4000 Lower of 2% x (Annualized Premium or Fund Value) but not exceeding Rs.2000 NIL Annualized Premium above Rs. 50,000 The table below gives the maximum discontinuance charge applicable: 25 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus Rider UIN & HDFC Life Income Benefit on Accidental Disability Rider - Linked HDFC Life Protect Plus Rider - Linked HDFC Life Health Plus Rider – Linked HDFC Life LiveWell Rider – Linked HDFC Life Waiver of Premium Rider – Linked 101A038V01 101A037V01 101A034V01 101A036V01 101A035V01 It is a Linked, Non-Participating, Pure Risk Premium, Individual Life Rider. A benefit equal to 1% of Rider Sum Assured per month for the next 10 years, in case of an Accidental Total Permanent Disability. There is no maturity benefit available under this rider. It is a Linked, Non-Participating, Pure Risk Premium, Individual Life/Health Rider. A benefit as a proportion of the Rider Sum Assured shall be payable in case on accidental death or partial/total disability due to accident or if you are diagnosed with cancer as per the option chosen under this rider. No maturity benefit is payable under this rider. It is a Linked, Non- Participating, Savings/Pure Risk Premium, Individual Health Rider. Get Lump Sum benefit equivalent to Rider Sum Assured on diagnosis of any of the covered 60 Critical Illnesses or benefit as a proportionate of the Rider Sum Assured on diagnosis of Early Stage Cancer / Major Cancer depending on the plan option chosen. A Linked, Non-Participating, Individual Pure Risk Premium/Savings, Life/Health rider Get Lump Sum benefit equivalent to Rider Sum Assured on death/ terminal illness/accidental death/hospitalisation or benefit as a proportionate of the Rider Sum Assured on disability due to accident/ undergoing any listed surgery, depending on the plan option chosen. A Linked, Non-Participating, Individual Pure Risk Premium, Life/Health rider where you can get Waiver of Premium for the base policy premium and premiums of any other additional riders, in case of death, disability or diagnosis of any listed critical illnesses of the Rider Life Assured. Enjoy continued policy benefits even in case of life's eventualities. &Riders / Add-Ons can be availed upon payment of additional premium. For all details on Riders, There is no rider charge in this product. kindly refer to the Rider Brochures available on our website. Any rider coverage terminates as soon as the base coverage terminates by way of claim or discontinuance or maturity (whichever occurs first). For details on riders, please refer to Rider Brochures. RIDERS We offer the following Rider options (as modified from time to time) to help you enhance your protection. IIn case of Option C (Decreasing Cover) and Option D (Decreasing Cover with Capital Guarantee), riders shall be offered during Level Cover Period only. For all other options, the rider Policy Term and Premium Payment Term shall be consistent with the base policy’s Policy Term and Premium Payment Term. Riders will not be offered if the policy term/premium payment term of the rider exceeds outstanding policy term/ premium payment term under the base policy. While attaching riders, it will be ensured that there is no overlap in the benefits. In case of an overlap, the rider(s) shall not be attached. HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 26 TERMS & CONDITIONS A. Risk Factors: In this policy, the investment risk in the investment portfolio is borne by the policyholder. Unit linked insurance products are different from traditional insurance products and are subject to the risk factors. The premiums paid in Unit Linked Insurance policies are subject to investment risks associated with capital markets and the NAVs of the units may go up or down based on the performance of funds and factors influencing the capital market and the insured is responsible for his/her decisions. HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited is the name of our Insurance Company and “HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus” is the name of this plan. The name of our company and the name of our plan, do not, in any way, indicate the quality of the plan, its future prospects or returns. Please know the associated risks and the applicable charges, from your Insurance agent or the Intermediary or policy document issued by the Insurance Company. The various funds offered under this contract are the names of the funds and do not in any way indicate the quality of these plans, their future prospects and returns. B. Net Asset Value (NAV): We will set the NAV of a fund as per the IRDAI’s guidelines. The NAV of Unit Linked Funds shall be computed as: NAV= We round the resulting price to the nearest Re. 0.0001. This price will be daily published on our website and the Life Insurance Council Website. Units shall only be allocated on the day the proposal is accepted and results into a policy by adjustment of application money towards premium. The premium will be adjusted on the due date even if it has been received in advance and the status of the premium received in advance shall be communicated to you. C. Exclusions: Suicide Exclusion: In case of death due to suicide within 12 months from the date of commencement of the policy or from the date of revival of the policy, as applicable, the nominee or beneficiary of the policy- holder shall be entitled to the fund value, as available on the date of intimation of death. Further any charges other than Fund Management Charges (FMC) and guarantee charges recovered subsequent to the date of death shall be added back to the fund value as available on the date of intimation of death. D. Policy Loan No policy loans are available for this product. E. Market Value of investment held by the Fund+value of current assets- (value of current liabilities and provisions if any) Number of Units existing on the valuation date (before creation or redemption of Units) We recommend that you read and understand this product brochure & customised beneﬁt illustration and understand what the plan is, how it works and the risks involved before you purchase.       Tax Benefits may be available as per the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 as amended from time to time. You are requested to consult your tax advisor for advice on Tax Benefits. Tax laws are subject to change from time to time. 27 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus F. Automatic Termination/ Foreclosure Conditions: a. If at any time during the policy term or settlement period, the Fund Value, including Top- up premium fund value, if any, becomes insufficient to deduct one months’ charges, as applicable under the policy, then the policy shall be foreclosed (after sufficient notice) and the surrender benefit, if any, as on date of such foreclosure will be paid. b. Policyholders shall be informed of such probable situation at least one month in advance to ensure fair treatment to the policyholder and gives them a reasonable opportunity to top-up the fund if required. c. G. Cancellation in the Free-Look period: In case you are not agreeable to the any of the policy terms and conditions, you have the option to return the policy to us stating the reasons thereof, within 30 days from the date of receipt of the policy, as per IRDAI (Protection of Policyholders’ Interests) Regulations, 2024 , as modified from time to time. On receipt of your letter along with the original policy document (original Policy Document is not required for policies in dematerialized form or where Policy is issued only in electronic form), we shall arrange to refund you the value of units allocated to you on date of receipt of request plus the unallocated part of Premium plus charges levied by cancellation of units, subject to deduction of the proportionate risk charges for the period on cover and the expenses incurred by us for medical examination (if any) and stamp duty charges. H. Alterations: The following alterations are available under the product subject to our Board Approved The following alterations shall not be allowed: Plan option Decrease of Policy Term Premium Increase in Sum Assured All alteration except for decreasing the Premium Payment Term, can be opted for at any time after the issuance of the policy, but will be applicable from the subsequent policy anniversary. All alteration will be subject to the eligibility criteria under the product. Underwriting Policy (BAUP): Change in Premium Payment Frequency Increasing the Premium Payment Term, subject to eligibility criteria Decrease of Premium Payment Term after the payment of 5 years premiums, subject to eligibility criteria Increasing the Policy Term, subject to eligibility criteria I. Grievance Redressal Mechanism: You can contact us at any of the below touchpoints in case of any concern: Helpline number: 022-68446530 (Call Charges apply) | NRI Helpline number +91 89166 94100 (Call Charges apply) E-mail Address: service@hdfclife.com | nriservice@hdfclife.com (For NRI customers only) You can let us know of your concerns/grievances through any of below options: A. Option 1: Written letter duly signed by the policyholder at any HDFC Life Branch. There is a Grievance Redressal Officer at the respective branch to address your complaint. To know more about branch address and timing's you can visit this link: https://www.hdfclife. com/contact-us#BranchLocator . Please note, branches are closed on Sundays, national holidays and region-specific public holidays. B. Option 2: Write to us from your registered email ID at service@hdfclife.com. C. Option 3: Visit us at our website https://www.hdfclife.com/customer-service/grievance- redressal The policy will not be foreclosed within the first five years.         HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 28 You may refer to the escalation matrix in case there is no response to a grievance within the prescribed timelines. For more information on our Grievance Redressal Mechanism and the detailed address of the Insurance Ombudsman, please refer Part G of the policy document given to you. J. Nomination as per Section 39 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time: i. The policyholder of a life insurance on his own life may nominate a person or persons to whom money secured by the policy shall be paid in the event of his death. ii. Where the nominee is a minor, the policyholder may appoint any person to receive the money secured by the policy in the event of policyholder's death during the minority of the nominee. The manner of appointment to be laid down by the Insurer. iii. Nomination can be made at any time before the maturity of the policy. iv. Nomination may be incorporated in the text of the policy itself or may be endorsed on the policy communicated to the Insurer and can be registered by the Insurer in the records relating to the policy. v. Nomination can be cancelled or changed at any time before policy matures, by an endorsement or a further endorsement or a will as the case may be. vi. A notice in writing of Change or Cancellation of nomination must be delivered to the Insurer for the Insurer to be liable to such nominee. Otherwise, insurer will not be liable if a bonafide payment is made to the person named in the text of the policy or in the registered records of the Insurer. vii. Fee to be paid to the Insurer for registering change or cancellation of a nomination can be specified by the Authority through Regulations. viii. A transfer or assignment made in accordance with Section 38 shall automatically cancel the nomination except in case of assignment to the Insurer or other transferee or assignee for purpose of loan or against security or its reassignment after repayment. In such case, the nomination will not get cancelled to the extent of insurer's or transferee’s or assignee’s interest in the policy. The nomination will get revived on repayment of the loan. ix. The provisions of Section 39 are not applicable to any life insurance policy to which Section 6 of Married Women’s Property Act, 1874 applies or has at any time applied except where before or after Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act 2015, a nomination is made in favour of spouse or children or spouse and children whether or not on the face of the policy it is mentioned that it is made under Section 39. Where nomination is intended to be made to spouse or children or spouse and children under Section 6 of MWP Act, it should be specifically mentioned on the policy. In such a case only, the provisions of Section 39 will not apply. K. Assignment as per Section 38 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time: i. This policy may be transferred/assigned, wholly or in part, with or without consideration. ii. An Assignment may be effected in a policy by an endorsement upon the policy itself or by a separate instrument under notice to the Insurer. iii. The instrument of assignment should indicate the fact of transfer or assignment and the reasons for the assignment or transfer, antecedents of the assignee and terms on which assignment is made. iv. The assignment must be signed by the transferor or assignor or duly authorized agent and attested by at least one witness. If you are still not satisfied with our response, you may approach the Insurance Ombudsman located in your region. 29 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus v. The transfer or assignment shall not be operative as against an insurer until a notice in writing of the transfer or assignment and either the said endorsement or instrument itself or copy there of certified to be correct by both transferor and transferee or their duly authorized agents have been delivered to the Insurer. vi. Fee to be paid for assignment or transfer can be specified by the Authority through Regulations. vii. On receipt of notice with fee, the Insurer should grant a written acknowledgement of receipt of notice. Such notice shall be conclusive evidence against the Insurer of duly receiving the notice. viii. The Insurer may accept or decline to act upon any transfer or assignment or endorsement, if it has sufficient reasons to believe that it is (a) not bonafide or (b) not in the interest of the policyholder or (c) not in public interest or (d) is for the purpose of trading of the insurance policy. ix. In case of refusal to act upon the endorsement by the Insurer, any person aggrieved by the refusal may prefer a claim to IRDAI within 30 days of receipt of the refusal letter from the Insurer. Section J (Nomination) and K (Assignment or Transfer) are simplified versions prepared for general information only and hence are not comprehensive. For full texts of these sections please refer to Section 38 and Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended by The Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015. L. Prohibition of Rebates: In accordance with Section 41 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time: i. No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement to any person to take out or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the Insurer. ii. Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this section shall be liable for a penalty which may extend to ten lakh rupees. M. Non-Disclosure: In accordance with Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time: i. No policy of life insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after the expiry of three years from the date of the policy, i.e., from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later. ii. A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground of fraud: Provided that the Insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision is based. iii. Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance policy on the ground of fraud if the insured can prove that the mis-statement of or suppression of a material fact was true to the best of his knowledge and belief or that there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of or suppression of a material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer: Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving lies upon the beneficiaries, in case the policyholder is not alive. HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus 30 iv. A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground that any statement of or suppression of a fact material to the expectancy of the life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or other document on the basis of which the policy was issued or revived or rider issued: Provided that the Insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based: Provided further that in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of misstatement or suppression of a material fact, and not on the ground of fraud, the premiums collected on the policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured within a period of ninety days from the date of such repudiation. v. Nothing in this section shall prevent us from calling for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so, and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the Life Insured was incorrectly stated in the proposal. This is not a comprehensive list of amendments of Insurance Laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 2014 and only a simplified version prepared for general information. Policy Holders are advised to refer to Original Ordinance Gazette Notification dated December 26, 2014 for complete and accurate details. N. A policyholder can now have his/her life insurance policies in dematerialized form through a password protected online account called an electronic Insurance Account (eIA). This eIA can hold insurance policies issued from any insurer in dematerialized form, thereby facilitating the Policyholder to access his/her policies on a common online platform. Facilities such as online premium payment, changes in address are available through the eIA. Furthermore, you would not be required to provide any KYC documents for any future policy purchase with any insurer. For more information on eIA visit https://www.hdfclife.com/customer-service/about-demat 31 HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (“HDFC Life”). CIN: L65110MH2000PLC128245, IRDAI Reg. No. 101. Life Insurance Coverage is available in this product. For more details on risk factors, associated terms and conditions and exclusions please read sales brochure carefully before concluding a sale. HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus (UIN: 101L187V01) is the name of a Unit Linked Non-Participating Individual Life Insurance Savings Plan. HDFC Life Income Beneﬁt on Accidental Disability Rider – Linked (UIN: 101A038V01) is a Linked, Non-Participating Pure Risk Premium, Individual Life Rider. HDFC Life Protect Plus Rider - Linked (UIN: 101A037V01) is a Linked, Non-Participating Pure Risk Premium, Individual Life/Health Rider. HDFC Life Health Plus Rider - Linked (UIN: 101A034V01) is a Linked, Non-Participating, Savings/Pure risk premium, Individual Health Rider. HDFC Life LiveWell Rider – Linked (101A036V01) A Linked, Non- Participating, Individual Pure Risk Premium, Life/Health rider. HDFC Life Waiver of Premium Rider – Linked (101A035V01) is a linked, Non-Participating, Individual Pure Risk Premium, Life/Health rider. Riders / Add Ons can be availed upon payment of additional premium. Unit Linked Life Insurance products are different from the traditional insurance products and are subject to the risk factors. The premium paid in Unit Linked Life Insurance policies are subject to investment risks associated with capital markets and the NAVs of the units may go up or down based on the performance of fund and factors inﬂuencing the capital market and the insured is responsible for his/her decisions. HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited is only the name of the Insurance Company, HDFC Life is only the name of the brand and HDFC Life Smart Protect Plus (UIN: 101L187V01) is only the name of the unit linked life insurance contract. The name of the company, name of the brand and name of the contract does not in any way indicate the quality of the contract, its future prospects or returns. Please know the associated risks and the applicable charges, from your Insurance agent or the Intermediary or policy document of the insurer. The various funds offered under this contract are the names of the funds and do not in any way indicate the quality of these plans, their future prospects and returns. This version of the policy brochure invalidates all previous versions for the same plan. This Product brochure is indicative of the terms, warranties, conditions and exclusions contained in the insurance policy. Insurance is the subject matter of solicitation. South Indian Bank Ltd. is the Corporate Agent (IRDAI Reg. No. CA0067) of HDFC Life. Life insurance policies are underwritten by HDFC Life. Purchase of any Insurance Product is purely Voluntary. The Bank will not force any customer either to opt for any insurance product or link such products to availment of any banking facility. ARN: BA/01/26/30846. BEWARE OF SPURIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS/FRAUDULENT OFFERS The Linked Insurance products do not offer any liquidity during the ﬁrst ﬁve years of the contract. The policyholders will not be able to surrender/withdraw the monies invested in Linked Insurance Products completely or partially till the end of ﬁfth year. Registered Ofﬁce: HDFC Life Insurance Company Ltd., 13th Floor, Lodha Excelus, Apollo Mills Compound, N.M. Joshi Marg, Mahalaxmi, Mumbai 400 011. Email: service@hdfclife.com | nriservice@hdfclife.com (For NRI customers only), Tel. No: 022-68446530 (Call charges apply – Available Mon to Sat, from 10 am to 7 pm IST) | NRI Helpline number +91 89166 94100 (NRI, Call charges apply – Available Mon to Sat, from 10 am to 9 pm IST) | Website: www.hdfclife.com. The name/letters "HDFC" in the name/logo of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (HDFC Life) belongs to HDFC Bank Limited and is used by HDFC Life under licence from HDFC Bank Limited. IRDAI or its ofﬁcials do not involve in any activities of insurance business like selling insurance policies, announcing bonus, investment of premiums or refund of amounts. Policyholders or the prospects receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint. EXPERIENCE NEXT-GEN BANKING