Plan in your 40s Celebrate in your 60s and beyond An annuity plan with a limited/regular premium payment option for a secured annuity post retirement Plan for your retirement in the right way, and ensure that you retire from work and not from life! Presenting ICICI Pru Guaranteed Pension Plan Flexi, a plan which ensures peace of mind in your golden years by taking care of perhaps the single most important requirement of life after # retirement – a guaranteed Annuity that will keep coming to you for your entire lifetime. India has undergone a transformative change in the past couple of decades, with better standard of living and improved healthcare facilities. Consequently, the life expectancy has also increased. A longer life means many more moments of happiness for you, but it also needs you to be better prepared ﬁnancially to ensure that you enjoy a relaxed life after retirement. #Conditions apply - The annuity amount is informed to you at the time of availing the plan and is guaranteed and unchanged for life. Key features # 3 simple steps to start your guaranteed lifelong annuity Step 1 - Choose the annuity amount that you wish to receive, or the premiums that you wish to pay. Step 2 - Choose annuity option, annuity frequency and the date to start receiving the annuity. Step 3 - Pay premiums for the chosen duration and enjoy guaranteed lifelong annuity. # # Guaranteed annuity for your entire life with an option of return of premiums paid Ÿ Choice of increasing annuity options that will give you inﬂation hedged retirement income in your golden years Wide range of annuity options to suit your retirement needs Ÿ Choice of Joint Life annuity options & Waiver of Premium feature to help secure the happiness of your loved ones “Save the Date” feature to receive your annuity on any date of your choice Option to receive annuity amount on a Monthly, Quarterly, Half-yearly or Yearly basis Option to “Top-up” your plan as and when you have additional funds to save Wide range of options to give you choice of how long you want to pay premiums and choice of when to start your annuity as per your speciﬁc requirements #Conditions apply - The annuity amount is informed to you at the time of availing the plan and is guaranteed and unchanged for life. Plan at a glance Parameters Conditions Annuity options Ÿ Single Life with Return of Premium Ÿ Joint Life with Return of Premium Ÿ Single Life with Return of Premium (ROP) on Critical Illness (CI) or Permanent Disability due to Accident (PD) or Death Ÿ Increasing Annuity for Single Life with Return of Premium Ÿ Increasing Annuity for Joint Life with Return of Premium With Return of Premium (ROP) Ÿ Single Life without Return of Premium Ÿ Joint Life without Return of Premium Without Return of Premium (WROP) Minimum age at entry 40 years (Primary Annuitant), 30 years (Secondary Annuitant) Maximum age at entry 70 years Premium Payment Term (PPT) 5 to 15 years Deferment period Deferment period refers to the number of years from the start of policy after which the annuity will begin. Deferment period can be chosen by the customer at inception of the policy. Premium payment term chosen to 15 years (in multiples of 1 year) Premium payment frequency Annual, Half Yearly, Monthly Minimum annuity Maximum annuity Subject to the board approved underwriting policy ₹ 12,000 per annum (₹ 1,000 per month) for policies for other than Government sponsored insurance scheme and National Pension Schemes where annuity shall be as per respective scheme. Parameters Conditions Minimum premium¹ Subject to minimum annuity amount as mentioned above; will depend upon annuity rates and the annuity option chosen Maximum premium¹ Subject to the board approved underwriting policy Modes of annuity payouts Annual, Half yearly, Quarterly, Monthly Ÿ Annuity will be payable in arrears/ at the end of every month, quarter, half-year or year, after completion of the deferment period, as chosen by you at the time of purchasing the annuity. The annuity amount chosen at policy inception is guaranteed for life. Ÿ Guaranteed Additions: From the time you start paying your premiums till the completion of deferment period, a beneﬁt known as Guaranteed Additions will accrue to your policy. Guaranteed Additions accrue at the end of each policy month during the deferment period only, provided all due premiums have been paid. Accrued GA are payable only as a part of death beneﬁt, whenever applicable. For Annual mode: Jan 15, 2033; For Half-yearly mode: July 15, 2032; For Quarterly mode: April 15, 2032; For Monthly mode: Feb 15, 2032. Ÿ Total Premiums Paid means the total of all the premiums (including any top-ups) paid under the base product, excluding any extra premium and taxes, if collected explicitly. Example: If your last annual premium is paid on Jan 15, 2031, and your deferment period ends on Jan 15, 2032, then Annuity is payable from - Beneﬁts in detail The plan offers 7 options to choose from as per your retirement needs: Single Life without Return of Premium: 1. In this option, annuity starts at the end of the deferment period chosen by you and the amount will be paid for Annuitant's entire life. 1The premiums that you will pay will vary depending upon the annuity option chosen by you. Sample Illustration: For a 50-year-old Annuitant Premium Payment Term: 5 years Deferment Period: 10 years Total Premiums Paid: `50 lakhs Annuity payable for life* Yearly `5,81,004 Half-yearly `2,87,682 Quarterly `1,42,431 Monthly `47,007 Please refer to the following diagram to understand how this plan will help him in his retirement if he chooses to receive annuity in annual mode – Illustrative Example: Mr. Gupta is a 50 years old professional who is approaching retirement and wants to create a secure source of annuity for himself so that he can enjoy his post-retirement years. He decides to save `10 lakhs per year for 5 years under Single Life without Return of Premium option and chooses a deferment period of 10 years. Pay `10 lakhs for 5 years = Total of `50 lakhs Deferment period Annuity of `5,81,004 is paid every year Annuity stops after death Death Age 54 50 60 61 90 ` ` ` ` ` ` a. Total Premiums Paid by you + Accrued Guaranteed Additions The amount that will be paid in case of death will be higher of: b. 105% of Total Premiums Paid by you If the Annuitant passes away during the deferment period, a beneﬁt amount known as Death Beneﬁt shall be payable to the Claimant in the policy. Thereafter, no further beneﬁts would be payable and the policy shall terminate. Annual Premium: `10 lakhs Guaranteed Additions accrued at the end of each policy month during the Deferment Period as per Annuity payout frequency: Yearly: `60,000; Half-yearly: `30,000; Quarterly: `15,000; Monthly: `5,000. Accrual of GAs of `5000 at the end of every month during Deferment period Year 4 10 11 40 0 On death of the Annuitant after the deferment period, no Death Beneﬁt would be payable. All rights, beneﬁts and interests under the policy will stand extinguished and the policy shall terminate. Joint Life without Return of Premium: 2. The difference between a Single life option and a Joint Life option is that in a Joint Life option, the annuity is paid not only for Primary Annuitant's entire life, but on death of the Primary Annuitant, the annuity amount continues to be paid to the Joint Life (known as the Secondary Annuitant) chosen by you. The Secondary Annuitant has to have an insurable interest with the Primary Annuitant and can be his spouse/ child/ parent/ sibling. The Secondary Annuitant needs to be at least 30 years old at the time of the start of the policy. Sample Illustration: For a 50-year-old Primary Annuitant & 48-year-old Secondary Annuitant Premium Payment Term: 5 years Deferment Period: 10 years Total Premiums Paid: `50 lakhs Annuity payable until either of the Annuitants are alive* Yearly `5,16,068 Half-yearly `2,55,529 Quarterly `1,26,512 Monthly `41,753 Annual Premium: `10 lakhs They decide to save `10 lakhs per year for 5 years under Joint Life without Return of Premium option, and choose a deferment period of 10 years. Illustrative Example: Mr. Shah, a 50 years old professional is married to Mrs. Shah, a 48 year old professional. They are both approaching retirement and want to create a secure source of annuity for themselves so that they can enjoy their post-retirement years. Please refer to the following diagram to understand how this plan will help them in their retirement if Mr. Shah chooses receive annuity in annual mode– Guaranteed Additions accrued at the end of each policy month during the Deferment Period as per Annuity payout frequency: Yearly: `60,000; Half-yearly: `30,000; Quarterly: `15,000; Monthly: `5,000. Deferment period 50 48 54 52 60 58 61 59 80 78 88 Annuity of `5,16,068 is paid every year Annuity of `5,16,068 continues for Secondary Annuitant Annuity stops Pay `10 Lakhs for 5 years = Total of `50 Lakhs Death of Primary Annuitant Death of Secondary Annuitant ` ` ` ` ` a. Total Premiums Paid by you + Accrued Guaranteed Additions In case of death of both Primary and Secondary Annuitants during the deferment period, a beneﬁt amount known as Death Beneﬁt shall be payable to the Claimant in the policy. Thereafter, no further beneﬁts would be payable and the policy shall terminate. In case of death of either Primary or Secondary Annuitant after the deferment period, no Death Beneﬁt will be payable. On the death of the Secondary Annuitant, no further beneﬁts would be payable and the policy shall terminate. Where the Secondary Annuitant has predeceased the Primary Annuitant, on death of Primary Annuitant, no further beneﬁts would be payable and the policy shall terminate. In case of death of Primary Annuitant during the deferment period, the policy will continue for the Secondary Annuitant who will receive annuity after the deferment period till his/ her death. b. 105% of Total Premiums Paid by you In case Waiver of Premium beneﬁt option (as described below under “Other beneﬁts”) is chosen, the Total Premiums Paid mentioned above would include premiums waived off due to trigger of Waiver of Premium beneﬁt. After payment of Death Beneﬁt, all rights, beneﬁts and interests under the policy will stand extinguished and the policy shall terminate. Once the deferment period is over, the annuity amount starts getting paid to the Primary Annuitant. On the death of the Primary Annuitant, the same annuity amount starts getting paid to the Secondary Annuitant. Under this option, the amount payable to the Claimant on death of last survivor, in case of death of both Primary and Secondary Annuitant during the deferment period will be higher of: In case of death of either primary or secondary annuitant after the deferment period, no Death Beneﬁt is payable and annuity will continue till the death of last survivor. Accrual of GAs of `5,000 at the end of every month during Deferment period Primary Annuitant Age Secondary Annuitant Age Year 0 4 10 11 40 Sample Illustration: For a 50-year-old Annuitant Premium Payment Term: 5 years Deferment Period: 10 years Total Premiums Paid: `50 lakhs Annuity payable for life* Yearly `5,12,165 Half-yearly `2,53,596 Quarterly `1,25,555 Monthly `41,437 Annual Premium: `10 lakhs Illustrative Example: Mr. Suting is a 50 years old professional who is approaching retirement and wants to create a secure source of annuity for himself so that he can enjoy his post-retirement years with his family. He decides to save `10 lakhs per year for 5 years under Single Life with Return of Premium option, and chooses a deferment period of 10 years. Please refer to the following diagram to understand how this plan will help him in his retirement if he chooses to receive annuity in annual mode– Pay `10 lakhs for 5 years = Total of `50 lakhs Deferment period Annuity of `5,12,165 is paid every year `50 Lakhs paid out to the nominee in case of death Death Age 54 50 60 61 90 ` ` ` ` ` ` a. Total Premiums Paid by you + Accrued Guaranteed Additions The amount that will be paid to the Claimant in case of death during the deferment period will be higher of: b. 105% of Total Premiums Paid by you Single Life with Return of Premium: 3. Similar to the ﬁrst plan option, here too the annuity starts at the end of the deferment period chosen by you and the amount will be paid for Annuitant's entire life. Guaranteed Additions accrued at the end of each policy month during the Deferment Period as per Annuity payout frequency: Yearly: `60,000; Half-yearly: `30,000; Quarterly: `15,000; Monthly: `5,000. Accrual of GAs of `5,000 at the end of every month during Deferment period Year 4 10 11 40 0 a. Total Premiums Paid by you + Accrued Guaranteed Additions – Total annuity paid out till date of intimation of death b. Total Premiums Paid by you Annuity paid out after date of intimation of death will be adjusted from the Death Beneﬁt and the net amount will be paid to the Claimant. After payment of the Death Beneﬁt, all rights, beneﬁts and interests under the policy will stand extinguished and the policy shall terminate. The amount that will be paid to the Claimant in case of death after the deferment period will be higher of: Similar to the second plan option, here too the annuity starts at the end of the deferment period chosen by you and the amount will be paid for Primary Annuitant's entire life. After the death of the Primary Annuitant, the annuity amount continues to be paid to the Secondary Annuitant. The Secondary Annuitant has to have an insurable interest with the Primary Annuitant and can be his spouse/ child/ parent/ sibling. The Secondary Annuitant needs to be at least 30 years old at the time of the start of the policy. Joint Life with Return of Premium: 4. Sample Illustration: For a 50-year-old Primary Annuitant & 48-year-old Secondary Annuitant Premium Payment Term: 5 years Deferment Period: 10 years Total Premiums Paid: ` 50 lakhs Annuity payable for life* Yearly `4,89,837 Half-yearly `2,42,541 Quarterly `1,20,081 Monthly `39,631 Annual Premium: `10 lakhs Please refer to the following diagram to understand how this plan will help them in their retirement if Mr. Remani chooses to receive annuity in annual mode– They decide to save `10 lakhs per year for 5 years under Joint Life with Return of Premium option, and choose a deferment period of 10 years. Illustrative Example: Mr. Remani, a 50 years old professional is married to Mrs. Remani, a 48 year old professional. They are both approaching retirement and want to create a secure source of annuity for themselves so that they can enjoy their post-retirement years with their family. Guaranteed Additions accrued at the end of each policy month during the Deferment Period as per Annuity payout frequency: Yearly: `60,000; Half-yearly: `30,000; Quarterly: `15,000; Monthly: `5,000. Primary Annuitant Age Secondary Annuitant Age Deferment period 50 48 54 52 60 58 61 59 80 78 93 Annuity of `4,89,837 is paid every year Annuity of `4,89,837 continues for Secondary Annuitant `50 lakhs paid to the nominee in case of death Pay `10 Lakhs for 5 years = Total of `50 Lakhs Death of Primary Annuitant Death of Secondary Annuitant ` ` ` ` ` An amount will be paid to the Claimant on death of last survivor, in case of death of both Primary and Secondary Annuitant during the deferment period and it will be higher of: In case Waiver of Premium beneﬁt option (as described below under “Other beneﬁts”) is chosen, the Total Premiums Paid mentioned above would include premiums waived off due to trigger of Waiver of Premium beneﬁt. After payment of the Death Beneﬁt, all rights, beneﬁts and interests under the policy will stand extinguished and the policy shall terminate. On the death of the Secondary Annuitant, subsequently, the Death Beneﬁt shall be payable to the Claimant in the policy. Thereafter, no further beneﬁts would be payable and the policy shall terminate. Once the deferment period is over, the annuity amount starts getting paid to the Primary Annuitant. On the death of the Primary Annuitant, the annuity amount starts getting paid to the Secondary Annuitant. In case of death of Primary Annuitant during the deferment period, the policy will continue for the Secondary Annuitant who will receive annuity after the deferment period till his/her death. Where the Secondary Annuitant has predeceased the Primary Annuitant, the Death Beneﬁt shall be payable to the Claimant on the death of the Primary Annuitant, no further beneﬁts would be payable and the policy shall terminate. a. Total Premiums Paid by you + Accrued Guaranteed Additions b. 105% of Total Premiums Paid by you The amount that will be paid to the Claimant in case of death of the last survivor after the deferment period will be higher of: a. Total Premiums Paid by you + Accrued Guaranteed Additions – Total annuity paid out till date of intimation of death b. Total Premiums Paid by you Annuity paid out after date of intimation of death will be adjusted from the Death Beneﬁt and the net amount will be paid to the Claimant Accrual of GAs of `5,000 at the end of every month during Deferment period Year 0 4 10 11 45 Single Life with Return of Premium (ROP) on Critical Illness (CI) or Permanent Disability due to 5. Accident (PD) or Death: This option pays annuity to the Annuitant after the end of deferment period. Annuity will continue for life till the ﬁrst diagnosis of any of the 7 speciﬁed CI or PD, before the age of 80 years, or death whichever occurs earlier. Death Beneﬁt will be payable on death or occurrence of any of the 7 Speciﬁed CI or PD based on the age of the Annuitant as mentioned in table 1 below. Sample Illustration: For a 50-year-old Annuitant Premium Payment Term: 5 years Deferment Period: 10 years Total Premiums Paid: `50 lakhs Annuity payable for life* Yearly `5,47,396 Half-yearly `2,71,041 Quarterly `1,34,192 Monthly `44,288 Annual Premium: `10 lakhs Illustrative Example: Mr. Thakkar is a 50 years old professional who is approaching retirement and wants to create a secure source of annuity for himself so that he can enjoy his post-retirement years without any compromise. He also wants access to funds to help manage his needs in case he's rendered permanently disabled or is struck with a critical illness. He decides to save `10 lacs per year for 5 years under Single Life with Return of Premium (ROP) on Critical Illness (CI) or Permanent Disability due to Accident (PD) or Death option, and chooses a deferment period of 10 years. Please refer to the following diagram to understand how this plan will help him if he chooses to Pay `10 lakhs for 5 years = Total of `50 lakhs Deferment period Annuity of `5,47,396 is paid every year `50 Lakhs paid out Mr. Thakkar is diagnosed with a CI Age 54 50 60 61 75 ` ` ` ` ` ` Guaranteed Additions accrued at the end of each policy month during the Deferment Period as per Annuity payout frequency: Yearly: `60,000; Half-yearly: `30,000; Quarterly: `15,000; Monthly: `5,000. Accrual of GAs of `5,000 at the end of every month during Deferment period Year 4 10 11 25 0 During deferment period The details of beneﬁts payable are as below: Annuitant's age Event Beneﬁt payable Recipient of Beneﬁt Before the Annuitant attains 80 years of age On occurrence of speciﬁed CI or PD Lump sum amount which is higher of: 1. Total Premiums Paid + Accrued Guaranteed Additions 2. 105% of Total Premiums Paid Annuitant; The policy terminates after the said payment. On death Lump sum amount which is higher of: 1. Total Premiums Paid + Accrued Guaranteed Additions 2. 105% of Total Premiums Paid Claimant The policy terminates after the said payment On or after the Annuitant attains 80 years of age On occurrence of speciﬁed CI or PD Nil (Policy continues with other applicable beneﬁts) Not applicable On death Lump sum amount which is higher of: 1. Total Premiums Paid + Accrued Guaranteed Additions 2. Total Premiums Paid Claimant The policy terminates after the said payment. Post deferment period Annuitant's age Event Beneﬁt payable Recipient of Beneﬁt All For life of the Annuitant, provided no beneﬁts on speciﬁed CI, PD or death have been claimed Annuity for life Annuitant Table 1 Annuitant's age Event Beneﬁt payable Recipient of Beneﬁt Before the Annuitant attains 80 years of age On occurrence of speciﬁed CI or PD Lump sum amount which is higher of: 1. Total Premiums Paid + Accrued Guaranteed Additions - Total annuity paid out till date of intimation of CI or PD 2. Total Premiums Paid Annuitant; The policy terminates after the said payment. On death Lump sum amount which is higher of: 1. Total Premiums Paid + Accrued Guaranteed Additions - Total annuity paid out till date of intimation of death 2. Total Premiums Paid Claimant The policy terminates after the said payment. On or after the Annuitant attains 80 years of age On occurrence of speciﬁed CI or PD Nil (Annuity continues for life of the Annuitant) Not applicable On death Lump sum amount which is higher of: 1. Total Premiums Paid + Accrued Guaranteed Additions - Total annuity paid out till date of intimation of CI or PD 2. Total Premiums Paid Claimant The policy terminates after the said payment. Please refer Appendix A, Clause 1 for the list of CI/PD covered and their exclusions. Annuity paid out after date of intimation of death, CI or PD (as applicable) will be adjusted from the Death Beneﬁt, CI or PD (as applicable) and the net amount will be paid to the Claimant. But, under this option the annuity amount increases every year at a rate of 5% p.a. of the annuity amount payable in the ﬁrst year after completion of deferment period. Increasing Annuity for Single Life with Return of Premium: 6. Similar to Single life with Return of Premium, here also annuity is paid for the life of the annuitant after the end of the deferment period. Sample Illustration: For a 50-year-old Annuitant Premium Payment Term: 5 years Deferment Period: 10 years Total Premiums Paid: `50 lakhs Annuity payable in the ﬁrst policy year after deferment period for life Yearly `3,54,410 Half-yearly `1,75,485 Quarterly `86,882 Monthly `28,674 Annual Premium: `10 lakhs Illustrative Example: Mr. Suting is a 50 years old professional who is approaching retirement and wants to create a secure source of annuity for himself so that he can enjoy his post-retirement years with his family but he wants annuity which increases gradually to adapt changing lifestyle and increasing needs. He decides to save ` 10 lacs per year for 5 years under Increasing Annuity for Single Life with Return of Premium option, and chooses a deferment period of 10 years. Please refer to the following diagram to understand how this plan will help him in his retirement if he chooses to receive annuity in annual mode– Guaranteed Additions accrued at the end of each policy month during the Deferment Period as per Annuity payout frequency: Yearly: `60,000; Half-yearly: `30,000; Quarterly: `15,000; Monthly: `5,000. Pay `10 lakhs for 5 years = Total of `50 lakhs Death Age 54 50 60 65 88 70 80 61 Year 4 10 11 38 0 15 20 30 Annuity of `3,54,410 is paid on st 1 year 62 12 Accrual of GAs `5,000 at the end of every month during Deferment period Deferment period Annuity of `3,72,130 is paid on nd 2 year Annuity of `4,25,292 is paid on th 5 year Annuity of `5,13,895 is paid on th 10 year Annuity of `6,19,100 is paid on th 20 year `50 Lakhs paid to nominee in case of dearth Once the deferment period is over, the annuity amount starts getting paid to the Primary Annuitant. The ﬁrst increase will start from the second year after completion of deferment period. The amount that will be paid to the Claimant in case of death during the deferment period will be higher of: a. Total Premiums Paid + Accrued Guaranteed Additions After payment of Death Beneﬁt, all rights, beneﬁts and interests under the policy will stand extinguished and the policy shall terminate. Annuity paid out after date of intimation of death will be adjusted from the Death Beneﬁt and the net amount will be paid to the claimant. The amount that will be paid to the Claimant in case of death after the deferment period will be higher of: a. Total Premiums Paid + Accrued Guaranteed Additions – Total annuity paid out till date of intimation of death b. 105% of Total Premiums Paid b. Total Premiums Paid Increasing Annuity for Joint Life with Return of Premium: 7. The Secondary Annuitant has to have an insurable interest with the Primary Annuitant and can be his spouse/ child/ parent/ sibling. The Secondary Annuitant needs to be at least 30 years old at the time of the start of the policy. Similar to the Joint Life with Return of Premium plan option, here too the annuity starts after the completion of the deferment period chosen by you and the amount will be paid for Primary Annuitant's entire life. But the annuity amount increases every year at a rate of 5% p.a. of the annuity amount payable in the ﬁrst year after completion of deferment period. Sample Illustration: For a 50-year-old Primary Annuitant & 48-year-old Secondary Annuitant Premium Payment Term: 5 years Deferment Period: 10 years Total Premiums Paid: `50 lakhs Annuity payable in the ﬁrst policy year after deferment period until either of the Annuitants are alive Yearly `3,22,109 Half-yearly `1,59,491 Quarterly `78,964 Monthly `26,061 Annual Premium: `10 lakhs Guaranteed Additions accrued at the end of each policy month during the Deferment Period as per Annuity payout frequency: Yearly: `60,000; Half-yearly: `30,000; Quarterly: `15,000; Monthly: `5,000. They decide to save ` 10 lacs per year for 5 years under Increasing Annuity for Joint Life with Return of Premium option, and choose a deferment period of 10 years. Illustrative Example: Mr. Remani, a 50 years old professional is married to Mrs. Rekha, a 48 year old professional. They are both approaching retirement and want to create a secure source of annuity for themselves so that they can enjoy their post-retirement years with their family but wants annuity which increases gradually to adapt changing lifestyle and increasing needs. Please refer to the following diagram to understand how this plan will help them in their retirement if Mr. Remani chooses to receive annuity in annual mode. Once the deferment period is over, the annuity amount starts getting paid to the Primary Annuitant. The ﬁrst increase is made in the second policy year after completion of deferment period After the deferment period, on the death of the Primary Annuitant, the annuity amount starts getting paid to the Secondary Annuitant till his/her death. On the death of the Secondary Annuitant, subsequently, the Death Beneﬁt shall be payable to the Claimant in the policy. Thereafter, no further beneﬁts would be payable and the policy shall terminate. Where the Secondary Annuitant has predeceased the Primary Annuitant after the deferment period, the Death Beneﬁt shall be payable to the Claimant on the death of the Primary Annuitant, no further beneﬁts would be payable and the policy shall terminate. Pay `10 lakhs for 5 years = Total of `50 lakhs Death of Seondary Annuitant Age 54 50 60 65 70 61 Year 4 10 11 38 0 15 20 30 Annuity of `3,22,109 is paid on st 1 year 62 12 Accrual of GAs `5,000 at the end of every month during Deferment period Deferment period Annuity of `3,38,214 is paid on nd 2 year Annuity of `3,86,531 is paid on th 5 year Annuity of `4,67,058 is paid on th 10 year Annuity of `6,28,113 is paid on th 20 year `50 Lakhs paid to nominee in case of dearth 52 48 58 63 88 68 78 59 60 Death of Primary Annuitant Other beneﬁts High Premium Beneﬁt: 1. Beneﬁts in the form of additional annuity as a percentage of the annuity rates would be paid for Higher Premiums as speciﬁed below: The amount that will be paid to the Claimant, in case of death of the last survivor after the deferment period will be higher of: a. Total Premiums Paid by you + Accrued Guaranteed Additions – Total annuity paid out till date of intimation of death b. Total Premiums Paid by you b. 105% of Total Premiums Paid by you After payment of the Death Beneﬁt, all rights, beneﬁts and interests under the policy will stand extinguished and the policy shall terminate. In case of death of Primary Annuitant during the deferment period, the policy will continue for the Secondary Annuitant who will receive annuity after the deferment period till his/her death. An amount will be paid to the Claimant, on death of last survivor, in case of death of both Primary and Secondary Annuitant during the deferment period and it will be higher of: Annuity paid out after date of intimation of death will be adjusted from the Death Beneﬁt and the net amount will be paid to the claimant. a. Total Premiums Paid by you + Accrued Guaranteed Additions In case Waiver of Premium beneﬁt option (as described below under “Other beneﬁts”) is chosen, the Total Premiums Paid mentioned above would include premiums waived off due to trigger of Waiver of Premium beneﬁt. Annual Premium Deferment Period 6.25% >=50,000 and <1,00,000 1.50% 3.75% >=1,00,000 and <2,00,000 5.50% 7.50% 3.50% 6.00% 8.00% 4.25% >=2,00,000 and <3,00,000 6.25% 4.50% 8.25% >=3,00,000 and <5,00,000 4.70% 6.45% 8.50% >=5,00,000 Up to 7 years 8 to 10 years 11 to 15 years 0% 0% <50,000 0% Option to avail Waiver of Premium beneﬁt 2. I) You can opt for waiver of premium beneﬁt with Joint Life options – Joint Life with Return of Premium & Joint Life without Return of Premium. ii) On death of the Primary Annuitant during the premium payment term, the future premiums will be waived off and the applicable beneﬁts will continue to be paid to the Secondary Annuitant. iii) On selection of waiver of premium beneﬁt, separate annuity rates for Joint Life options will be applicable. iv) This beneﬁt will be applicable only in case of death of Primary Annuitant while the policy is in-force and premium paying i) You can increase your annuity at any time by paying an additional premium (top-up premium). There’s no restriction on the premium amount you need to pay to avail a top-up. Option to top-up the annuity amount 3. ii) The additional annuity payable will be calculated as per the then prevailing annuity rates and age of the Annuitant at the time of payment of additional premium. iii) This option can be chosen anytime during the deferment period only and while the policy is in-force and all due premiums have been paid. v) The top-up premium divided by premium payment term will be added to the original premiums paid for the purpose of giving the Annuitant the beneﬁt of ‘High Premium Beneﬁt’. The minimum annuity amount shall not be applicable for top up annuity. vii) Top-up premium will be considered for beneﬁt payable on Death, CI/PD or Surrender, as applicable. Beneﬁt payable on Death, CI/PD or Surrender would be calculated separately for the original premiums paid and top-up premium paid as per their respective policy years and the sum total would be paid out. ix) The minimum annuity amount shall not be applicable for top-up annuity. The option to top-up the annuity amount shall not be allowed for paid-up policies. vi) Guaranteed additions will also apply on top-up annuity. viii) The prevailing annuity rate for revised annual premium price slab will be applicable only for the additional premium paid. The original annuity amount shall remain unchanged. iv) The prevailing annuity rates would be derived so as to match the timing of the top-up annuity payout with base annuity. For example, if you opt for 10 year deferment period and opt for top-up after 2.5 years, prevailing annuity rates for deferment period of 7 years and 8 years would be used to derive the annuity rate for 7.5 years. • This option needs to be selected at policy inception or before the ﬁrst annuity payment. At the time of buying the policy, you can choose to receive the annuity on any one date, to coincide with any special date. • The annuity payable from the special date will be increased for the period between the due date of ﬁrst annuity payment and the revised date selected, at an interest rate of 3.00% p.a. compounded monthly. The basis for increasing the annuity amount due to selection of a speciﬁed date to receive annuity will be reviewed from time to time and may be revised subject to the prior approval of the IRDAI. Please note: • The date chosen should be succeeding the due date of the ﬁrst annuity payment. Save the Date 4. Death Beneﬁt payout options: 5. The product gives the Annuitant/ Claimant the ﬂexibility to take Death Beneﬁt in a way that meets your family's ﬁnancial requirements even in your absence. The Annuitant(s) shall have to choose one of the following options for the payment of the death beneﬁt to the Claimant(s). The death claim amount shall then be paid to the Claimant as per the option exercised by the Annuitant(s) at the proposal stage or by the Claimant at the time of registration of death claim. Ÿ Lump sum: Under this option, Death Beneﬁt shall be payable to the Claimant(s) as a Lump sum. In case no other option is selected at policy inception or by the time of registration of claim, this shall be the default option of payment of death beneﬁt. Ÿ Income for a ﬁxed period: Under this option, Death beneﬁt shall become payable to the Claimant in form of structured regular income over a period of 5 years as per choices given below: I) Payment frequency: The income shall be paid in advance, which can be in either yearly, half-yearly, quarterly, or monthly mode. ii) Proportion of death beneﬁt: This option can be opted for full, or part (< 100%) of Death Beneﬁt payable under the policy. In case only part of the death beneﬁt is chosen to be taken as income, the balance amount will be paid in lump sum at the time of acceptance of the claim. Ÿ The amount of income shall be calculated such that the present value of instalments, computed as on date of intimation of death using a given discount rate, shall equal the amount of death beneﬁt chosen to be taken as income under the policy. Such instalment amount shall be a level amount and once chosen shall remain ﬁxed over the income payout period. Ÿ At any time during the income payment phase, the Claimant can choose to terminate the income payment in exchange for a lump-sum, in which case, the lump-sum payable shall be equal to the discounted value of all the future instalments due. The interest rate used to calculate the discounted value will be that, as applicable on date of termination as per the Company policies We understand that you may need access to funds in times of need. Special Withdrawal: 6. This feature give you the ﬂexibility to withdraw up to 60% of the total premiums paid less the amount withdrawn (if any) as Special Withdrawals over the lifetime of this policy and keep the annuity payments ongoing. The withdrawal amount will be paid as a lump sum in return for a reduction in future annuity payments and other beneﬁts payable under the policy. This feature is available under the following annuity options: 2.Joint Life with Return of Premium 3.Single Life with Return of Premium on Critical illness (CI) or Permanent Disability due to accident (PD) or Death Please note: Ÿ The maximum withdrawal permitted at any time shall not exceed 60% of Total Premiums Paid as on date of request, less the amount previously withdrawn (if any) as Special withdrawals. Ÿ The number of times you will be permitted to make part withdrawals over the policy term is limited to 3. 1.Single Life with Return of Premium For more details on the terms and conditions applicable under this feature, refer to clause of 12 of “Terms and conditions”. I) Under Joint Life with Return of Premium option, the Loan can be availed by the Primary Annuitant and on death of the Primary Annuitant, it can be availed by the Secondary Annuitant. iii) Post deferment period, loan can be availed only in case of health related ailments for the annuitant(s) or family members. The health ailments may be veriﬁed by a medical certiﬁcate issued by a certiﬁed medical professional or through alternate suitable documentation. ii) During the deferment period, loan can be availed for any purpose. Policy loan: 7. v) For inforce and/or fully paid-up policies, the policy can't be foreclosed on the ground of outstanding loan amount including interest exceeding the surrender value . Loan is available for all options except Single Life without Return of Premium & Joint Life without Return of Premium. iv) For other than in-force and fully paid Policies, if the outstanding loan amount including interest exceeds the surrender value, the Policy will be foreclosed after giving intimation and reasonable opportunity to the Policyholder to continue the Policy. The annuitant shall be given due intimation/ notice prior to the policy foreclosure as a reasonable opportunity for continuing the policy. On Foreclosure, the Policy will terminate, and all rights, beneﬁts and interests under the policy will stand extinguished. vi) For availing this feature of Loan the policy shall be assigned to the Company ix) For loans availed after the deferment period citing health related ailments: a. Loan amount of up to 60% of the Surrender Value can be availed. b. Applicable interest rate will be equal to 1.5% plus prevailing yield on 10 year Government Securities. The yield on 10-year Government Securities will be sourced from www.bloomberg.com. The applicable loan interest rate in November 2024 is 8.36% p.a. compounded half-yearly. viii) For loans availed during the deferment period: g. If the revised annuity amount calculated as above is less than the minimum annuity allowed under the product, then the surrender value less the outstanding loan amount less any accrued interest will be paid as a lump sum and the policy will be terminated. vii) In the event of failure to repay the outstanding loan amount with interest by the required date, the Policy will terminate, and all rights, beneﬁts and interests under the policy will stand extinguished .An in-force and fully paid Policy will not be foreclosed. a. Maximum amount of loan that can be granted after the deferment period shall be such that the effective annual interest amount payable on loan does not exceed 50% of the annual annuity amount payable under the policy. c. The interest on loan shall be 2.00% in addition to yield on 10 year Government Securities as at 15th April of the relevant ﬁnancial year (preceding working day in case 15th April is not a working day) and shall be applicable for all loans granted during the period of twelve months beginning 1st May of the relevant ﬁnancial year. The yield on 10 year Government Securities will be sourced from www.bloomberg.com. The applicable loan interest rate in April 2024 is 9.18% p.a. compounded half-yearly. d. If loan along with due interest is not repaid by the end of the deferment period, the excess of Total Premiums Paid over the loan amount and accrued interest will be used to calculate the revised premium & annuity. The revised premium is calculated as Total Premiums Paid less Loan amount outstanding with due interest at the end of deferment period. This revised premium and Annuity will be used for the calculation of future beneﬁts and special withdrawal feature after the Deferment Period. e. In order to calculate the revised annuity, the annuity rate applicable to the policy at the time of issuance/change in annuity frequency will be used. The revised annuity is calculated as revised premium x original annual annuity amount/ Total Premium Paid. f. Where policyholder has paid top-up premium in the policy, the revised premium will be split into base premium and top-up premium in the same ratio as Total Premiums Paid (excluding top-up premium) to top-up premium. The annuity rate applicable to base and top-up premium will be applied to the respective split premiums in order to arrive at the revised annuity. c. The quantum of loan availed with all due interest would be required to be repaid before the end of the deferment period. In case of death or surrender of the Policy during the Deferment Period, Loan outstanding together with the interest thereon if any will be deducted and the balance amount will be payable. h. The loan interest rate will be reviewed on the 15th day of every month by the company based on the 10-year G- Sec yield of one day prior to such review. b. The loan amount cannot exceed 60% of the Surrender Value at the time of granting of loan. a. In a Paid-up policy, the annuity amount you will receive will be equal to the ratio of number of premiums paid to the number of premiums payable by you during the premium payment term. Please read the section on Revival of policy, which speciﬁes how one can pay due premiums and revive the beneﬁts of the policy. I) If you stop paying premiums before at least one full years' premium is paid, the policy will lapse on expiry of grace period. If you do not revive the lapsed policy by the end of revival period, it will terminate. x) The basis for computing loan interest will be reviewed from time to time and may be revised subject to the prior approval of the IRDAI. d. The loan interest will be recovered from the Annuity Amount payable under the Policy. The loan interest will accrue as per the Frequency of Annuity Payment under the Policy and it will be due on the date of annuity. 8. What happens if you stop paying your premiums? e. In case of death or surrender of the Policy, loan outstanding together with the outstanding interest thereon, if any, will be deducted and the balance amount will be payable. iii) Annuity amount in a paid-up policy ii) If you stop paying premiums after you have paid premiums for at least one full year, your policy is said to have become “paid-up”. A paid-up policy is one where you are entitled to get beneﬁts, but the beneﬁts will be lower than full beneﬁts, since you would have paid lesser than the total premiums supposed to be paid. It is recommended that you pay all premiums for the period selected to be able to enjoy all policy beneﬁts. However, at any stage if you stop paying premiums the following shall be applicable: b. Paid-up annuity amount can be calculated as follows: Original annuity amount X {number of months for which premiums are paid / (12 X Premium Payment Term)} f. However, the Annuitant has the ﬂexibility to repay the loan principal and outstanding interest, if any, at any time during the remaining course of the Policy. For example, if you were supposed to pay premiums for 5 years, but stop paying after 3 years, the annuity amount will be 60% of the original annuity amount. c. The paid-up annuity amount increases every year at a rate of 5% p.a. of the paid-up annuity amount payable in the ﬁrst year after completion of deferment period for Increasing annuity for Single Life with Return of Premium and Increasing annuity for Joint Life with return of premium. The ﬁrst increase is made in the second year after completion of deferment period. iv) If the Paid-up annuity amount calculated as above (along with any top-up Annuity amount) is less than the minimum annuity of ` 250 per month (` 3,000 per annum), the policy will cease and a surrender value will be paid to you as a lump sum at the end of the revival period of 5 years from the due date of ﬁrst unpaid premium. v) If any top-up premium has been paid under the Policy, the beneﬁts with respect to the top-up premium will vi) The Policy will continue with the Guaranteed Additions accrued till the date the policy acquires Paid-up status. No further Guaranteed Additions shall be applicable thereafter. ix) The Death Beneﬁt in a paid-up policy after the deferment period is payable for all annuity options except for Single Life Without Return of Premium and Joint Life without Return of Premium. remain unchanged. The total annuity amount payable under the Policy will be paid-up annuity amount plus annuity amount with respect to the top-up premium. vii) The Death Beneﬁt in a paid-up policy during deferment period shall be higher of the following: b. 105% of Total Premiums Paid viii) The Death Beneﬁt in a paid-up policy after the deferment period shall be higher of the following: a. Total Premiums Paid plus accrued Guaranteed Additions, till the date of ﬁrst unpaid Premium less total annuity paid out till the date of intimation of death b. Total Premiums Paid a. Total Premiums Paid + Accrued Guaranteed Additions, till the date of ﬁrst unpaid Premium x) Annuity paid out after date of intimation of death will be adjusted from the Death Beneﬁt and the net amount will be paid to the claimant .On payment of Paid-up Death Beneﬁt, the policy will terminate and all rights, beneﬁts and interests under the policy will stand extinguished. xi) In case beneﬁt is payable on occurrence of speciﬁed CI or PD, the amount of beneﬁt will be same as paid-up Death Beneﬁt as deﬁned in point viii) above. xii) On revival of a lapsed or paid-up policy, the beneﬁts under the policy which prevailed before the date of lapse or paid-up will be reinstated. xiii) In addition, on revival of a paid-up policy, the difference between the paid-up beneﬁts already paid out during the revival period and the original beneﬁts payable will also be paid to the policyholder. iv) On revival of a lapsed or paid-up policy, the beneﬁts under the policy which prevailed before the date of lapse or paid-up will be reinstated. i) Revival will be based on prevailing Board Approved Underwriting Policy. th iii) The revival interest rate will be reviewed on the 15 day of every month by the company based on the 10-year G- Sec yield of one day prior to such review. v) In addition, on revival of a paid-up policy, the difference between the paid-up beneﬁts already paid out during the revival period and the original beneﬁts payable will also be paid to the Annuitant. ii) Revival interest rate will be equal to 1.50% plus the prevailing yield on 10 year Government Securities. The yield on 10 year Government Securities will be sourced from www.bloomberg.com. The revival interest rate for November 2024 is 8.36% p.a. compounded half-yearly. Revival: 10. You can revive your policy beneﬁts for their full value within ﬁve years from the due date of the ﬁrst unpaid premium by paying all due premiums together with interest. 1. Single Life with Return of Premium For the following options, no surrender value will be payable after the Deferment Period: However, the policyholder can surrender the policy any time after payment of at least one full policy year's premium(s). Prior to receipt of one full years' premium, no surrender value is payable. For the following Annuity options, in case of surrender after the deferment period, the Surrender Value would be equal to the Special Surrender Value (SSV): 3. Single Life with Return of Premium on Critical illness (CI) or Permanent Disability due to accident (PD) or Death For details on GSV factors, please refer clause 9 under Terms & conditions below. 2. Joint Life with Return of Premium 4. Increasing Annuity for Single Life with Return of Premium GSV will be calculated as follows, For more details on Surrender, please refer the policy document. In case Beneﬁt Enhancer/ Worksite Booster is applicable to the Policy, an enhanced beneﬁt is payable on Surrender, as mentioned in point 15 of "Terms and conditions". Surrender: 11. 2. Joint Life without Return of Premium GSV = (GSV factor for regular premium X Total premiums paid excluding top-up premium) + (GSV factor for top-up premium X Top-up premium paid. 5. Increasing Annuity for Joint Life with Return of Premium The ﬁnal Surrender Value shall not exceed the amount of Death Beneﬁt payable under the chosen plan option. On payment of Surrender Value, the Policy will terminate and all rights, beneﬁts and interests under the Policy will stand extinguished. It is recommended that you continue with your policy to avail all beneﬁts. For all options, in case of surrender during deferment period, the Surrender value would be higher of Guaranteed Surrender value (GSV) and Special Surrender Value (SSV). 1. Single life without return of premium Any change in revival conditions will be subject to prior approval from IRDAI and will be disclosed to Policyholders. The revival of the policy may be on terms different from those applicable to the policy before premiums were discontinued. The revival will take effect only if it is speciﬁcally communicated by the Company to the Policyholder. The Company reserves the right to refuse to revive the policy. Terms and conditions There is no exclusion other than Suicide clause for the Death Beneﬁt. No waiting period/pre-existing condition will apply for Death Beneﬁt or beneﬁt payable on occurrence of CI/PD. 5) Grace Period: If the policyholder is unable to pay an installment premium by the due date, a grace period of 15 days will be given for payment of due installment premium for monthly frequency, and 30 days will be given for 4) Policy Alterations: The annuity option, premium payment term, and the deferment period once opted cannot be changed after the free-look period. You can change the frequency of annuity payment on policy anniversary. Change in premium payment frequency is allowed during the Premium Payment Term, but only on policy anniversary. I. Policies purchased out of proceeds of a deferred pension plan/group superannuation plan: Premiums paid less stamp duty paid under the policy and expenses borne by the Company on medical examination if any, will be transferred back to the originating source. In this scenario premium will not be refunded to you. 2) Exclusions, if any (e.g. Occupational Hazard, Travel): 3) Free look period: Central Record keeping Agency (CRA) account from where the money was received, In this scenario premium will not be refunded to you. ii. Policies purchased out of National Pension Scheme proceeds: Premiums paid less stamp duty paid under the policy and expenses borne by the Company on medical examination if any, will be transferred back to the iii. For other policies: The Company will return the premiums paid after deduction of stamp duty paid under the policy and expenses borne by the Company on medical examination, if any under the policy to you.The policy shall terminate on payment of the said amount and all rights, beneﬁts and interests under this policy will stand extinguished. In case of death due to suicide after the deferment period, the above suicide clause is not applicable and Death Beneﬁt as per the option chosen will be applicable. On receipt of the policy document, whether received electronically or otherwise, you have an option to review the policy terms and conditions. If you are not satisﬁed or have any disagreement with the terms and conditions of the policy or otherwise and have not made any claim, the policy document needs to be returned to the Company with reasons for cancellation of the policy within 30 days from the date of receipt of the policy document. 1) Suicide clause: During the deferment period, in case of death of the Annuitant or death of the last survivor in a Joint Life policy is due to suicide within 12 months from the date of commencement of risk under the policy or from the date of revival of the policy, as applicable, the Claimant shall be entitled to at least 80% of the Total Premiums Paid till the date of death or the surrender value available as on the date of death whichever is higher, provided the policy is in force. The policy will terminate on making such a payment and all rights, beneﬁts and interests under the policy will stand extinguished. On cancellation of the Policy during the free-look period the treatment will be as below: payment of due installment premium for any other frequency. The risk cover continues during the grace period. In case of death of the Annuitant during the grace period, the Company will pay the applicable Death Beneﬁt. without recovery of outstanding premium payable. If the premium is not paid within the grace period, the policy shall lapse and cover will cease in case the policy hasn’t acquired a reduced paid-up status. 7) a) Modal loading applicable at policy issuances For monthly and half-yearly modes of premium payments the following additional loadings, expressed as a percentage of the annual premium, will be applicable: 6) All ages mentioned above are calculated as 'age as on last birthday’. 8) For annuity payment modes other than monthly, the following factors would be applicable. In case of change in premium payment mode, the annuity amount will remain unchanged. 9) GSV factors GSV factors for regular premium: Mode Half-yearly Monthly Yearly Loading (% of annual premium) 2.5% 4.5% Nil Annuity Frequency Annual Half yearly Quarterly Conversion Factors 103% 102% 101% Annuity Instalment (per frequency) Conversion factor x Monthly annuity x 12 Conversion factor x Monthly annuity x 6 Conversion factor x Monthly annuity x 3 GSV Factors for deferment period less than 10 years Policy Year 5 years 6 years 7 years 8 years 9 years 1 2 3 4 5 6 15% 30% 35% 90% 90% 15% 30% 35% 50% 90% 90% 15% 30% 35% 50% 50% 90% 15% 30% 35% 50% 50% 50% 15% 30% 35% 50% 50% 50% GSV factors for top-up premium: • For fully paid-up policies, this option can be exercised after the end of the deferment period. For other than fully 10) Special Withdrawal: The terms and conditions applicable under this feature are as below: The duration will be measured from the date of each Top-up premium separately. Where, Policy Year means a period of 12 months commencing from the policy commencement date and every policy anniversary thereafter. Policy year 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 to (Deferment Period less 2) (Deferment Period less 1) to Deferment Period GSV Factors for deferment period 10 years and above2.5% 15% 30% 35% 50% 50% 50% 50% 50% + 40% x (Policy Year – 7) ÷ (Deferment Period – 8) 90% GSV Factors for deferment period less than 10 years Policy Year 5 years 6 years 7 years 8 years 9 years 7 8 9 90% 90% 90% 50% 90% 90% Duration (in years) at the time of surrender from the date of receiving top-up premium GSV factor 1 2 3 4 onwards 75% 75% 75% 90% • In case of death of any of the annuitants under the Joint Life with Return of Premium option, the surviving annuitant can exercise this option at the time of intimation of death of the deceased annuitant as well. paid-up policies, this option can be exercised after the end of the deferment period or after completion of revival period from the due date of the ﬁrst unpaid premium, whichever is later. For a lapsed policy, this feature is not applicable. • This feature can be exercised provided there is no outstanding loan amount. • The minimum amount of lumpsum withdrawal will be ₹ 5,000 at the time of each exercise. • On every exercise of this feature, the annuity amount, death beneﬁt, terminal beneﬁt and other beneﬁts (other than surrender value) shall be revised with effect from the date of withdrawal i.e. if W is the withdrawal amount, then the revised annuity amount, death beneﬁt, terminal beneﬁt and other beneﬁts (other than surrender value) shall be reduced to (100 – x)% of the current amount payable under the base policy (before withdrawal), where x = W / Surrender Value as applicable on the date of withdrawal * 100. Exercise of this option shall be allowed subject to revised annuity payments not falling below the minimum annuity as deﬁned in clause 5 of Schedule I of IRDAI (Insurance Product) Regulations, 2024, as amended from time to time. Surrender value post exercise of special withdrawal feature will be based on the revised annuity amount 11) Tax Beneﬁts: Tax beneﬁts may be available as per the prevailing Tax laws. We recommend that you seek professional advice for applicability of tax beneﬁt on premium paid and beneﬁts received. Taxes: Goods and Services tax and applicable cesses, if any will be charged extra, as per applicable rates. The tax laws are subject to amendments from time to time. 12) The product is also available for sale through online mode. An additional 0.50% annuity amount will be paid, for as long as annuity is payable, for eligible policies purchased through ISNP (Insurance Self Network Platform) either owned by the Company or permitted intermediary. Additionally, an enhanced beneﬁt will be offered on surrender anytime from date of commencement of policy to the end of the Deferment Period for eligible policies purchased through ISNP (Insurance Self Network Platform) either owned by the Company or permitted intermediary. This amount payable will be the surrender value as described above under the section "Surrender", subject to minimum of 100% of Total Premiums Paid till the date of surrender. Worksite Booster An additional annuity of 0.50% will be offered for policies sourced through a worksite. Worksite sourcing is where policies are sourced in bulk through campaigns, stall or help desk, or similar engagement activities conducted for a group. Since the sourcing will happen in bulk, there will be savings in terms of sales effort and therefore cost. The savings in sales-related expenses is being passed on to the customer. Additionally, an enhanced beneﬁt will 13) Beneﬁt Enhancer 19) Policy Servicing and Grievance Handling Mechanism: For any clariﬁcation or assistance, You may contact Our advisor or call Our customer service representative (between 10.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m, Monday to Saturday; excluding national holidays) on the numbers mentioned on the reverse of the Policy folder or on Our website: www.iciciprulife.com. For updated contact details, We request You to regularly check Our website. If You do not receive any resolution from Us or if You are not satisﬁed with Our resolution, You may get in touch with Our designated grievance redressal ofﬁcer (GRO) at gro@iciciprulife.com or 1800 2660. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, be offered on surrender anytime from date of commencement of policy to the end of the Deferment Period. This amount payable will be the surrender value as described above under the section "Surrender", subject to minimum of 100% of Total Premiums Paid till the date of surrender. 16) Section 41: In accordance with Section 41 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time, no person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement to any person to take or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the insurer. Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this section shall be punishable with ﬁne which may extend to ten lakh rupees. 15) Assignment: Assignment shall be as per Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. For more details on this section, please refer to our website. 14) Nomination: Nomination shall be as per Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. For more details on this section, please refer to our website. 17) Section 45: Policy shall not be called into question on the ground of misstatement after three years in accordance with Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. In case of fraud or misstatement, the policy shall be cancelled immediately by paying the surrender value, subject to the fraud or misstatement being established by the Company in accordance with Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. 18) For further details, please refer to the policy document and the beneﬁt illustration. Address: Ground Floor & Upper Basement, Unit No. 1A & 2A, Raheja Tipco Plaza Rani Sati Marg, Malad (East) Mumbai-400097 . For more details, please refer to the “Grievance Redressal” section on www.iciciprulife.com. If You do not receive any resolution or if You are not satisﬁed with the resolution provided by the GRO, You may escalate the matter to Our internal grievance redressal committee at the address mentioned below: Email ID: complaints@irdai.gov.in Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India Ground Floor & Upper Basement Unit No. 1A & 2A, Malad (East), Mumbai- 40009, Maharashtra. Raheja Tipco Plaza, Rani Sati Marg, IRDAI Grievance Call Centre (BIMA BHAROSA SHIKAYAT NIVARAN KENDRA) You can also register your complaint online at bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in. This is subject to change from time to time. Survey No. 115/1, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Refer https://www.iciciprulife.com/services/grievance-redressal.html for more details. Address for communication for complaints by fax/paper: Hyderabad, Telangana State – 500032 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Co. Ltd. If you are not satisﬁed with the response or do not receive a response from us within 15 days, you may approach Policyholders' Protection and Grievance Redressal Department, the Grievance Cell of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) on the following contact details: Policyholders' Protection and Grievance Redressal Department – Grievance Redressal Cell 155255 (or) 1800 4254 732 The CIs covered under annuity option of Single Life Annuity with return of premium on Critical Illness (CI) or Permanent Disability due to accident (PD) and the deﬁnitions, exclusions thereof are mentioned below: a) Cancer of Speciﬁed Severity A malignant tumor characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of malignant cells with invasion and destruction of normal tissues. This diagnosis must be supported by histological evidence of malignancy. The term cancer includes leukemia, lymphoma and sarcoma. The following are excluded: i. All tumors which are histologically described as carcinoma in situ, benign, pre-malignant, borderline malignant, low malignant potential, neoplasm of unknown behavior, or non-invasive, including but not limited to: Carcinoma in situ of breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN - 2 and CIN-3. ii. Any non-melanoma skin carcinoma unless there is evidence of metastases to lymph nodes or beyond; iii. Malignant melanoma that has not caused invasion beyond the epidermis; iv. All tumors of the prostate unless histologically classiﬁed as having a Gleason score greater than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classiﬁcation T2N0M0 v. All Thyroid cancers histologically classiﬁed as T1N0M0 (TNM Classiﬁcation) or below; vi. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3 vii.Non-invasive papillary cancer of the bladder histologically described as TaN0M0 or of a lesser classiﬁcation, viii.All Gastro-Intestinal Stromal Tumors histologically classiﬁed as T1N0M0 (TNM Classiﬁcation) or below and with mitotic count of less than or equal to 5/50 HPFs; ii. Any type of angina pectoris The ﬁrst occurrence of heart attack or myocardial infarction, which means the death of a portion of the heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood supply to the relevant area. The diagnosis for Myocardial Infarction should be evidenced by all of the following criteria: iii. Elevation of infarction speciﬁc enzymes, Troponins or other speciﬁc biochemical markers. i. A history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction (For e.g. typical chest pain) The following are excluded: b) First Heart Attack of speciﬁed severity (Myocardial Infarction): ii. New characteristic electrocardiogram changes i. Other acute Coronary Syndromes Appendix A i. One of the following human organs: heart, lung, liver, kidney, pancreas, that resulted from irreversible end- stage failure of the relevant organ, or The following are excluded: i. Other stem-cell transplants ii. Traumatic injury of the brain End stage renal disease presenting as chronic irreversible failure of both kidneys to function, as a result of which either regular renal dialysis (haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) is instituted or renal transplantation is carried out. Diagnosis has to be conﬁrmed by a specialist medical practitioner. Any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent neurological sequelae. This includes infarction of brain tissue, thrombosis in an intracranial vessel, haemorrhage and embolisation from an extracranial source. Diagnosis has to be conﬁrmed by a specialist medical practitioner and evidenced by typical clinical symptoms as well as typical ﬁndings in CT Scan or MRI of the brain. Evidence of permanent neurological deﬁcit lasting for at least 3 months has to be produced. The actual undergoing of a transplant of: e) Stroke Resulting In Permanent Symptoms: ii. Where only islets of langerhans are transplanted i. Angioplasty and/or any other intra-arterial procedures i. Transient ischemic attacks (TIA) f) Major Organ/ Bone Marrow Transplant: The actual undergoing of heart surgery to correct blockage or narrowing in one or more coronary artery(s), by coronary artery bypass grafting done via a sternotomy (cutting through the breast bone) or minimally invasive keyhole coronary artery bypass procedures. The diagnosis must be supported by a coronary angiography and the realization of surgery has to be conﬁrmed by a cardiologist. iii. Vascular disease affecting only the eye or optic nerve or vestibular functions. ii. Human bone marrow using haematopoietic stem cells. The undergoing of a transplant has to be conﬁrmed by a specialist medical practitioner. iii. A rise in cardiac biomarkers or Troponin T or I in absence of overt ischemic heart disease OR following an intra- arterial cardiac procedure. c) Open Chest CABG: The following are excluded: d) Kidney Failure Requiring Regular Dialysis: The following are excluded: Total and irreversible loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of injury or disease of the brain or spinal cord. A specialist medical practitioner must be of the opinion that the paralysis will be permanent with no hope of recovery and must be present for more than 3 months. i. Mobility: The ability to walk a distance of 200 meters on ﬂat ground. iii. Climbing: The ability to climb up a ﬂight of 12 stairs and down again, using the handrail if needed. vi. Blindness – permanent and irreversible - Permanent and irreversible loss of sight to the extent that even when tested with the use of visual aids, vision is measured at 3/60 or worse in the better eye using a Snellen eye chart. Permanent Disability due to accident: g) Permanent Paralysis of limbs: Permanent Disability will be established if the life assured is unable to perform 3 out of the 6 following activities of daily work: ii. Bending: The ability to bend or kneel to touch the ﬂoor and straighten up again and the ability to get into a standard saloon car, and out again. v. Writing: The manual dexterity to write legibly using a pen or pencil, or type using a desktop personal computer keyboard. For the purpose of PD to apply, the disability should have lasted for at least 180 days without interruption from the date of disability and must be deemed permanent by a Company empanelled medical practitioner. iv. Lifting: The ability to pick up an object weighing 2kg at table height and hold for 60 seconds before replacing the object on the table. Customers calling from anywhere in India, please dial 1800 2660 Do not preﬁx this number with “+” or “91” or “00” Monday to Saturday, except National Holidays. To know more, please visit www.iciciprulife.com For More Information: Call Centre Timings: 10.00 am to 7.00 pm © ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Registered with Insurance Regulatory & Development Authority of India (IRDAI) as Life Insurance Company. Regn. No. 105. CIN: L66010MH2000PLC127837. Reg. Off.: ICICI PruLife Towers, 1089 Appasaheb Marathe Marg, Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400025. Tel.: 40391600. Member of the Life Insurance Council. This product brochure is indicative of the terms, conditions, warranties, and exceptions contained in the insurance policy. For further details, please refer to the policy document. In the event of conﬂict, if any, between the contents of this brochure and those contained in the policy document, the terms and conditions contained in the policy document shall prevail. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to ICICI Bank Ltd & Prudential IP services Ltd and used by ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd under license. ICICI Pru Guaranteed Pension Plan Flexi Form No.: I19, UIN: 105N187V07. Advt No.:L/II/1429/2024-25. BEWARE OF SUSPICIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS/FRAUDULENT OFFERS IRDAI is not involved in activities like selling insurance policies, announcing bonus or investment of premiums. Public receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance has maintained its focus on offering a wide range of savings and protection products that meet the different life stage requirements of customers. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited is a joint venture between ICICI Bank Limited and Prudential Corporation Holdings Limited, a part of the Prudential group. ICICI Prudential began its operations in Fiscal 2001 after receiving approval from Insurance Regulatory Development Authority of India (IRDAI) in November 2000. About ICICI Prudential Life Insurance