Buy your policy at once Get early income from the very next month Goals. Objectives. Life Dreams. Words and themes around which we spend most of our lives. We want to provide the best to our loved ones. In order to ensure that we are able to live a carefree life, a ’¼ünancial plan that provides protection of life cover becomes extremely important. This would become even more special if it comes combined with the bene’¼üts of a savings plan that can help you plan for various goals in life. Presenting ICICI Pru Gold, a protection and savings oriented participating life insurance plan that provides the protection of life cover along with a regular income for whole of life that can be used to meet your long-term recurring ’¼ünancial needs through participation in bonus. This is a Participating Non linked Life Individual Savings Product What makes ICICI Pru Gold suitable for you? Protection through life cover with policy term up to 99 years of age Income up to 99 years of age, with option to start receiving income immediately or after a few years as per your needs. This income will be a $ combination of Guaranteed Income and income linked to bonus declaration Option to accumulate/withdraw income any time or adjust future premiums from the income thus accumulated $ Option to get Guaranteed boosters after every 5 years to boost your savings with Immediate Income with Booster plan variant Tax bene’¼üts may be applicable on premiums paid and bene’¼üts received as per prevailing tax laws $In all plan options, guarantee is in the form of ŌĆśGuaranteed incomeŌĆÖ as regular income and ŌĆśSum assured on maturityŌĆÖ as a part of Maturity Bene’¼üt. Additionally, in ŌĆśImmediate Income with boosterŌĆÖ plan option, the ŌĆśGuaranteed boosterŌĆÖ also forms a part of guaranteed bene’¼üts. Guaranteed returns are payable subject to all due premiums being paid and survival of the life assured. Option to receive income instantly on policy issuance Plan at a glance *Applicable Tax will be charged separately, as per applicable rates. The tax laws are subject to amendments from time to time. Premium and Bene’¼üts will vary depending upon the plan variant chosen. The minimum Basic Sum Assured on Death will correspond to the minimum annualized premium and vary by the Death Bene’¼üt multiple as per age of entry of the Life Assured. The maximum Basic Sum Assured on Death will be subject to board approved underwriting policy. Premium Payment Frequency: Yearly, Half-Yearly, Monthly Plan Variants Premium Payment Term (PPT) (in years) Min/Max Policy Term (PT) (in years) Min/Max Age at Entry (in years) Min/Max Age at Maturity (in years) Min/Max Annualized Premium Immediate Income 5 6 7 to 15 6 7 8 to 15 7 8 9 to 15 30/99 0/55 0/60 0/60 0/60 0/60 0/60 0/60 0/60 0/60 30/99 `50,000 p.a.*/ Subject to Board Approved Under-writing Policy Immediate Income with Booster Deferred Income 20-99 20-99 20-99 20-99 Bene’¼üts in detail This policy comes with 3 different plan variants that you can choose from. Read on to understand the bene’¼üts that you will receive under each of these options: Plan Variant 1: Immediate Income ┼Ė Cash Bonus = Cash Bonus rate multiplied by Annualized Premium ┼Ė Sum Assured on Maturity (i.e. equal to sum of all Annualized Premiums payable), plus $ $ ┼Ė Annual Guaranteed Income = Guaranteed Income rate multiplied by Annualized Premium (This is set at inception of the policy and remains guaranteed to be paid every year/month throughout the Income Term) Under this option, starting from the ’¼ürst policy year, you will receive a regular income (Survival Bene’¼üt) on the respective due dates , , subject to the policy being in-force. and realization of all due premium(s) by the company. This regular income will comprise the following: ┼Ė $ Guaranteed Income (GI) and You will receive this income till the date of maturity, death, surrender or lapse of the policy, whichever happens ’¼ürst. The annual GI and CB, if declared will be a percentage of Annualized Premium respectively and may vary by age, premium payment term and annualized premium. The GI and CB will be computed as: For details on Bonuses, please refer Clause 7 under Terms and Conditions mentioned below. You can read more about policy bene’¼üts on lapsation, death and surrender in upcoming clauses in the document: ŌĆ£What happens if you stop paying premiums?ŌĆØ, ŌĆØDeath Bene’¼üt(Insurance cover amount)ŌĆØ, and ŌĆ£SurrenderŌĆØ respectively. ┼Ė Income which will be linked to Bonus, if declared; referred to as Cash Bonus (CB) Further, at the end of the policy term, you will get a lump sum bene’¼üt (known as the Maturity Bene’¼üt) which will be equal to ┼Ė A lump sum bene’¼üt which is linked to Bonus, if declared, and is paid out on policy termination; referred to as Terminal Bonus (if declared) Annualized Premium is the premium amount payable in a year, excluding the taxes, rider premiums, underwriting extra premium and loadings for modal premium, if any $In all plan options, guarantee is in the form of ŌĆśGuaranteed incomeŌĆÖ as regular income and ŌĆśSum assured on maturityŌĆÖ as a part of Maturity Bene’¼üt. Additionally, in ŌĆśImmediate Income with boosterŌĆÖ plan option, the ŌĆśGuaranteed boosterŌĆÖ also forms a part of guaranteed bene’¼üts. Guaranteed returns are payable subject to all due premiums being paid and survival of the life assured. To understand this variant in greater detail, let us take an example. Illustration: 1 Mr. Animesh pays ` 1,00,000 p.a. for 10 years = total of ` 10,00,000 Years 35 99 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51......ŌĆ”ŌĆ”ŌĆ”96 97 98 Jan 1, 2023 Jan 1, 2087 GI CB st He gets sum of GI + CB, if declared every year from the end of 1 year .................. Lump sum .................. Bene’¼üts payable $ 2 Guaranteed Income (GI) (A) 3 Cash Bonus (CB, if declared) (B) Total Income (A + B) 2 Sum Assured on Maturity (C) 3 Terminal Bonus , if declared (D) Total Maturity Bene’¼üt (C+D) Assumed at 4% p.a. ` 12,500 ` 760 ` 13,260 ` 10,00,000 ` 73,47,861 ` 83,47,861 Assumed at 8% p.a. ` 12,500 ` 24,500 `37,000 ` 10,00,000 ` 1,56,18,913 `1,66,18,913 3 For variable bene’¼üts, the illustrations on this page will show two different rates of assumed future investment returns. These assumed rates of return are not guaranteed and they are not the upper or lower limits of what you might get back. 1 GST applicable on premium will be charged extra as per prevailing tax laws. 2 Some bene’¼üts are guaranteed and some bene’¼üts are variable with returns based on future investment performance. The guaranteed bene’¼üts are clearly marked as "guaranteed" in the illustration on this page. (Sum Assured on Maturity + Terminal bonus, if declared is paid out at maturity) ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` The Bonuses in the product are not guaranteed in nature and the Company may declare these at its discretion. For the purpose of this illustration, we have assumed two different rates of returns, 4% p.a. and 8% p.a. and these are not the upper or lower limits that Mr. Animesh may receive as bene’¼üts. Mr. Animesh, a 35 year old, wants to save for his son's regular expenses. He decides to pay the premium of ` 1,00,000 every year for 10 years and chooses to take life insurance cover till the age of 99 years. ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` Jan 1, 2024 $In all plan options, guarantee is in the form of ŌĆśGuaranteed incomeŌĆÖ as regular income and ŌĆśSum assured on maturityŌĆÖ as a part of Maturity Bene’¼üt. Additionally, in ŌĆśImmediate Income with boosterŌĆÖ plan option, the ŌĆśGuaranteed boosterŌĆÖ also forms a part of guaranteed bene’¼üts. Guaranteed returns are payable subject to all due premiums being paid and survival of the life assured. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16......ŌĆ”ŌĆ”ŌĆ”61 62 63 64 At any given time, Mr. Animesh can choose to accumulate the regular income (GI + CB) or a part of them, instead of receiving the same as periodic payments. As and when Mr. Animesh desires, he can withdraw the accumulated amount or he can use this accumulated amount to adjust any of his remaining future premiums against the accumulated amount. Please read Clause 2 Savings Wallet, under Additional ’¼éexibilities for more details. WhatŌĆÖs more? The regular income is paid to Mr. Animesh on the policy anniversary. However, he also has the option to receive the income on any Special Date as per his choice by opting for Save the Date feature. The Special Date could be any date of his choice like his birthday, marriage anniversary or any other date. Please read Clause 1 Save the Date, under Additional ’¼éexibilities for more details. Plan Variant 2: Immediate Income with Booster To sum it up, you will receive the sum of While your plan may be to receive a regular ’¼éow of income every year, it will always be a delight to get something in addition. Hence, under this variant, while you will enjoy regular income similar to option 1 from the ’¼ürst policy year, $ you will also receive a bene’¼üt (known as Guaranteed Booster) every 5th policy year, subject to the policy being in- $ force and realization of all due premium(s) by the company.. This Annual Guaranteed Booster will be equal to 100% $ of the Guaranteed Income, as applicable for the year of payment. ┼Ė $ Guaranteed Income (GI) ┼Ė Cash Bonus, if declared (CB) You will receive these bene’¼üts till the date of maturity, death, surrender or lapse of the policy, whichever happens ’¼ürst. Just like the previous plan variant, at the end of the policy term, you will get a lump sum bene’¼üt at the end of the policy term equal to the ┼Ė Sum Assured on Maturity (i.e. equal to sum of all Annualized Premiums payable), plus ┼Ė Terminal Bonus (if declared) ┼Ė $ Guaranteed Booster (GB), and Annualized Premium is the premium amount payable in a year, excluding the taxes, rider premiums, underwriting extra premium and loadings for modal premium, if any In the illustration above, it is assumed that Mr. Animesh has opted to receive the income annually in arrears. He also has the ’¼éexibility to receive this income annually in advance and monthly in arrears. Please refer to Clause 14 under Terms and Conditions for details on the income payout frequencies. $In all plan options, guarantee is in the form of ŌĆśGuaranteed incomeŌĆÖ as regular income and ŌĆśSum assured on maturityŌĆÖ as a part of Maturity Bene’¼üt. Additionally, in ŌĆśImmediate Income with boosterŌĆÖ plan option, the ŌĆśGuaranteed boosterŌĆÖ also forms a part of guaranteed bene’¼üts. Guaranteed returns are payable subject to all due premiums being paid and survival of the life assured. To understand this variant in greater detail, let us take an example. Illustration: 1 Mr. Animesh pays ` 1,00,000 p.a. for 10 years = total of ` 10,00,000 Years Jan 1, 2022 Jan 1, 2087 Jan 1, 2023 st He gets sum of GI + CB, if declared every year from the end of 1 year and GB every 5 years Bene’¼üts payable $ 2 Guaranteed Income (GI) (A) 3 Cash Bonus (CB), if declared (B) Total Income (A+B) $ 2 Guaranteed Booster (GB) (C) 2 Sum Assured on Maturity (D) 3 Terminal Bonus , if declared (E) Total Maturity Bene’¼üt (D+E) Assumed at 4% p.a. ` 12,500 ` 730 ` 13,230 ` 12,500 ` 10,00,000 ` 67,07,989 ` 77,07,989 Assumed at 8% p.a. ` 12,500 ` 23,500 `36,000 ` 12,500 ` 10,00,000 ` 1,37,38,662 ` 1,47,38,662 Jan 1, 2027 LetŌĆÖs say Mr. Animesh from the previous example now pays the premium of ` 1,00,000 every year for 10 years and takes life insurance cover till age 99 years with Immediate Income with Booster plan variant. GI CB (Sum Assured on Maturity + Terminal bonus, if declared is paid out at maturity) GB ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ......... ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ......... ` ` ` 35 99 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51......ŌĆ”ŌĆ”ŌĆ”96 97 98 3 For variable bene’¼üts, the illustrations on this page will show two different rates of assumed future investment returns. These assumed rates of return are not guaranteed and they are not the upper or lower limits of what you might get back. 1 GST applicable on premium will be charged extra as per prevailing tax laws. 2 Some bene’¼üts are guaranteed and some bene’¼üts are variable with returns based on future investment performance. The guaranteed bene’¼üts are clearly marked as ŌĆ£guaranteedŌĆØ in the illustration on this page. ` ` Lump sum $In all plan options, guarantee is in the form of ŌĆśGuaranteed incomeŌĆÖ as regular income and ŌĆśSum assured on maturityŌĆÖ as a part of Maturity Bene’¼üt. Additionally, in ŌĆśImmediate Income with boosterŌĆÖ plan option, the ŌĆśGuaranteed boosterŌĆÖ also forms a part of guaranteed bene’¼üts. Guaranteed returns are payable subject to all due premiums being paid and survival of the life assured. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16......ŌĆ”ŌĆ”ŌĆ”61 62 63 64 Just like plan variant 1, the following ’¼éexibilities are available with Mr. Animesh in this variant too: b. Choosing Save the Date to receive income on any Special Date c. Option to accumulate/withdraw income (GI +CB) along with Guaranteed Boosters (GB) and/or adjust the $ accumulated amount against future premiums using Savings Wallet a. In the above example , Mr. Animesh has opted to receive the income "annually in arrears". He also has the ’¼éexibility to receive this income "annually in advance" or "monthly in arrears". Plan Variant 3: Deferred Income ┼Ė Sum Assured on Maturity (i.e. equal to sum of all Annualized Premiums payable), plus Annualized Premium is the premium amount payable in a year, excluding the taxes, rider premiums, underwriting extra premium and loadings for modal premium, if any ┼Ė Terminal Bonus (if declared) Under this option too, similar to option 1, you will receive regular income in the form of Guaranteed Income and Cash Bonus, if declared, on the respective due dates, subject to the policy being in-force and realization of all due premium(s) by the company.. However, here you can choose to start receiving the bene’¼üts after a few years (known as the deferment period) instead of starting immediately, as per your income requirements. You can start this income as early as 2nd policy year or as late as Premium Payment Term plus 1 year. You will receive this income till the date of maturity, death, surrender or lapse of the policy, whichever happens ’¼ürst. Similar to the other plan variants, at the end of the policy term, you will get a lump sum bene’¼üt at the end of the policy term equal to the To understand this variant in greater detail, let us take an example. Illustration: Mr. Rishabh a 35 year old, plans to pay the premium of ` 2,00,000 every year for 10 years. He wants to start receiving income from 12th year and hence he chooses a deferment period of 11 years and life insurance cover till age 99 years. $In all plan options, guarantee is in the form of ŌĆśGuaranteed incomeŌĆÖ as regular income and ŌĆśSum assured on maturityŌĆÖ as a part of Maturity Bene’¼üt. Additionally, in ŌĆśImmediate Income with boosterŌĆÖ plan option, the ŌĆśGuaranteed boosterŌĆÖ also forms a part of guaranteed bene’¼üts. Guaranteed returns are payable subject to all due premiums being paid and survival of the life assured. 1 Mr. Rishabh pays ` 2,00,000 p.a. for 10 years = total of ` 20,00,000 Years Jan 1, 2022 Jan 1, 2087 GI CB Jan 1, 2034 st He gets sum of GI + CB, if declared every year from the end of 12 year Bene’¼üts payable $ 2 Guaranteed Income (GI) (A) 3 Cash Bonus (CB), if declared (B) Total Income (A+B) 2 Sum Assured on Maturity (C) 3 Terminal Bonus , if declared (D) Total Maturity Bene’¼üt (C+D) Assumed at 4% p.a. ` 69,500 ` 4,300 ` 73,800 ` 20,00,000 ` 93,89,076 ` 1,13,89,076 Assumed at 8% p.a. ` 69,500 ` 1,37,500 `2,07,000 ` 20,00,000 ` 1,42,60,272 ` 1,62,60,272 .................. ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` .................. ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` c. Option to accumulate/withdraw income (GI +CB) and/or adjust the accumulated amount against future premiums using Savings Wallet Just like above plan variants, the following ’¼éexibilities are available with Mr. Rishabh in this variant too: a. In the above example , Mr. Rishabh has opted to receive the income "annually in arrears". He also has the ’¼éexibility to receive this income "monthly in arrears". b. Choosing Save the Date to receive income on any Special Date 35 99 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51......ŌĆ”ŌĆ”ŌĆ”96 97 98 2 Some bene’¼üts are guaranteed and some bene’¼üts are variable with returns based on future investment performance. The guaranteed bene’¼üts are clearly marked as ŌĆ£guaranteedŌĆØ in the illustration on this page. 3 For variable bene’¼üts, the illustrations on this page will show two different rates of assumed future investment returns. These assumed rates of return are not guaranteed and they are not the upper or lower limits of what you might get back. 1 GST applicable on premium will be charged extra as per prevailing tax laws. ` ` (Sum Assured on Maturity + Terminal bonus, if declared is paid out at maturity) Lump sum $In all plan options, guarantee is in the form of ŌĆśGuaranteed incomeŌĆÖ as regular income and ŌĆśSum assured on maturityŌĆÖ as a part of Maturity Bene’¼üt. Additionally, in ŌĆśImmediate Income with boosterŌĆÖ plan option, the ŌĆśGuaranteed boosterŌĆÖ also forms a part of guaranteed bene’¼üts. Guaranteed returns are payable subject to all due premiums being paid and survival of the life assured. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16......ŌĆ”ŌĆ”ŌĆ”61 62 63 64 Death Bene’¼üt (Insurance cover amount): ┼Ė 105% of the Total Premiums Paid as on the Date of Death a. Sum Assured on Death, plus Total Premiums Paid means the total of all the premiums paid under this base product, excluding any extra premium, and taxes, if collected explicitly c. Terminal Bonus (if declared) $ Interim Survival Bene’¼üt = (Interim Cash Bonus Rate * Annualized Premium + Guaranteed Income + $ $ Guaranteed Booster) * Months elapsed since last Survival Bene’¼üt payout date / 12, where the Guaranteed Booster will be applicable in case death happens in the policy year when the same is payable. In the event of death of the Life Assured on the Date of Maturity, then only the last Guaranteed Income, Cash Bonus (if declared) and Maturity Bene’¼üt (if applicable) is payable, and the Death Bene’¼üt shall not be payable. *The Interim Survival Bene’¼üt is applicable where Survival Bene’¼üt is payable Annually in Arrears and shall be computed in the following manner: ┼Ė For ŌĆ£Immediate Income with BoosterŌĆØ variant: ┼Ė Death Bene’¼üt multiple (as given in Appendix I) times Annualized Premium. b. Interim Survival Bene’¼üt (if any), plus* Death Bene’¼üt is equal to: For policies issued on minorŌĆÖs life, the date of commencement of risk will be the date of commencement of the policy. For all the three plan variants discussed above, If the person whose life is covered by this policy (known as the Life Assured) passes away, during the policy term, the Death Bene’¼üt (insurance cover amount) will be paid out as a lump sum to the person speci’¼üed (known as the Claimant) in the policy. Where, the Sum Assured on Death is the highest of: Annualized Premium is the premium amount payable in a year excluding the taxes, rider premiums, underwriting extra premium and loadings for modal premium, if any. ┼Ė For ŌĆ£Immediate IncomeŌĆØ and ŌĆ£Deferred IncomeŌĆØ variants: $ Interim Survival Bene’¼üt = (Interim Cash Bonus Rate * Annualized Premium + Guaranteed Income) * Months elapsed since last Survival Bene’¼üt payout date / 12 ┼Ė 7 times the Annualized Premium, $In all plan options, guarantee is in the form of ŌĆśGuaranteed incomeŌĆÖ as regular income and ŌĆśSum assured on maturityŌĆÖ as a part of Maturity Bene’¼üt. Additionally, in ŌĆśImmediate Income with boosterŌĆÖ plan option, the ŌĆśGuaranteed boosterŌĆÖ also forms a part of guaranteed bene’¼üts. Guaranteed returns are payable subject to all due premiums being paid and survival of the life assured. Additional Flexibilities We understand that your ’¼ünancial plan needs to align with your goals and hence should enable you to utilize your money whenever you want and exactly the way you want! Keeping this in mind, the following ’¼éexibilities are available under all the three plan variants: 1. Save the Date: While planning your future goals, you would want to keep in mind the speci’¼üc needs of your loved ones and customize your plan accordingly. If You have opted for annual premium payment frequency, then You can choose to receive the Survival Bene’¼üts annually on any one 'Special Date', during the policy year prior to the policy anniversary, as per your choice. The bene’¼üt will be paid within seven working days of realization of the respective Policy Year's premium (if due) by Us or on this chosen date every year, whichever is later through the income term till policy termination. In case you opt for a Special Date, the Survival Bene’¼üt payable each year would be adjusted by multiplying the amount with the following Save the Date factors, varying by the policy month in which the Special Date falls. In case you have selected the ŌĆ£Immediate Income with BoosterŌĆØ plan variant at inception where you will receive Guaranteed Booster (GB) bene’¼üt as part of the Survival Bene’¼üt, then the same shall be paid (adjusted as above) on the Special date in the policy year when it is due. This option needs to be selected at policy inception and cannot be changed during the Policy Term. Save The Date factors Factor 92% 93% 93% 94% Factor 94% 95% 96% 96% Factor 97% 98% 98% 99% Policy Month 1 2 3 4 Policy Month 5 6 7 8 Policy Month 9 10 11 12 $In all plan options, guarantee is in the form of ŌĆśGuaranteed incomeŌĆÖ as regular income and ŌĆśSum assured on maturityŌĆÖ as a part of Maturity Bene’¼üt. Additionally, in ŌĆśImmediate Income with boosterŌĆÖ plan option, the ŌĆśGuaranteed boosterŌĆÖ also forms a part of guaranteed bene’¼üts. Guaranteed returns are payable subject to all due premiums being paid and survival of the life assured. 2. Savings Wallet: You may have planned for a goal which would have required bene’¼üts to continue for the chosen time-frame, but your needs at times change with changing life stages. As you would have previously read in the ŌĆśBene’¼üts in detailŌĆÖ section about Savings Wallet, this feature gives you the ’¼éexibility to realign your bene’¼üts as per your changing needs. You have an option to accumulate the bene’¼üts instead of taking as payment during the policy term. You can opt in for this feature through explicit consent vide request submitted to the Company, whereby the Survival Bene’¼üt when due will be transferred to your Savings Wallet. Upon crediting the Survival Bene’¼üt in the Savings Wallet on the due date, the Survival Bene’¼üt will be deemed to have been paid and amount within the Savings Wallet will be non-participating in nature. This option can be opted for and opted out at any time during the Income Term This option to accumulate Survival Bene’¼üt can be availed for both in-force as well as paid-up policies. At any point of time, you will be able to check the balance available in your wallet. The money within the wallet will be accumulated daily at an interest rate linked to the Reverse Repo Rate published by Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The interest rate used for accumulation under this feature will be reviewed twice every year on 1st of June and 1st of December, and will be set equal to Reverse Repo Rate published on RBIŌĆÖs website as on the review date. The current Reverse Repo Rate as at June 1, 2025 is 3.35% p.a. Any change in bases used for determination of applicable interest rate will be subject to prior approval from IRDAI and will be disclosed to policyholders. You have the option to utilize the balance in the Savings Wallet to offset any premiums due to be paid during the premium payment term. The same has to be provided to Us as a request prior to the premium due date. Upon receipt of such request and con’¼ürmation of the same, We shall automatically deduct the authorized amount on the premium due date from the Savings Wallet. If the amount available for offset is not suf’¼ücient to adjust the due premium, the balance due premium shall remain payable as on the premium due date. We shall recognize the settlement of due premium only after receipt of the same in full. In case the balance in the wallet is not withdrawn completely during the income term, such balance will be paid along with the bene’¼üt to the claimant at the time of termination of the Policy on of death, surrender or maturity, whichever happens ’¼ürst On payment of this bene’¼üt, the policy will terminate. You will also have an option to withdraw, completely or partially, the balance in the wallet anytime during the Income Term. Additional bene’¼üts: Higher Premium Bene’¼üt You will receive something extra for contributing more towards your savings goals. As your commitment towards savings increases, you will receive an additional bene’¼üt every year. This additional bene’¼üt is expressed as additional $ guaranteed income rate and is % of Annualized Premium, provided in the table below: For premiums in between band thresholds (i.e. premiums that fall between two adjacent Annualized Premiums mentioned in table above), the additional rate will be linearly interpolated. The additional bene’¼üt will be applicable for $ $ Guaranteed Income and Guaranteed Booster, if any. Annualized Premium ` 50,000 ` 100,000 ` 200,000 ` 300,000 ` 500,000 >= ` 1,000,000 Additional rate 0.00% 0.25% 0.50% 0.50% 0.75% 0.75% $In all plan options, guarantee is in the form of ŌĆśGuaranteed incomeŌĆÖ as regular income and ŌĆśSum assured on maturityŌĆÖ as a part of Maturity Bene’¼üt. Additionally, in ŌĆśImmediate Income with boosterŌĆÖ plan option, the ŌĆśGuaranteed boosterŌĆÖ also forms a part of guaranteed bene’¼üts. Guaranteed returns are payable subject to all due premiums being paid and survival of the life assured. Policy loan You can take a policy loan after your policy acquires a surrender value. a. Loans are available provided a positive surrender value is payable under the policy at the time of disbursement of the same. b. Loan amount up to 80% of the surrender value can be availed from the Company. d. For inforce and/or fully paid-up policy, the policy can't be foreclosed on the ground of outstanding loan amount including interest exceeding the surrender value. For availing this feature of loan, the policy shall be assigned to Company c. For other than in-force and fully paid policies, if the outstanding loan amount including interest exceeds the surrender value, the policy will be foreclosed . The policyholder shall be given due intimation/ notice prior to the policy foreclosure as a reasonable opportunity for continuing the policy. On Foreclosure, the Policy will terminate, and all rights, bene’¼üts and interests under the policy will stand extinguished. e. Before any bene’¼üts are paid out, loan outstanding together with the interest thereon if any will be deducted and the balance amount will be payable. f. Applicable interest rate will be equal to 1.5% in addition to prevailing yield on 10 year Government Securities. The yield on 10 year Government Securities will be sourced from www.bloomberg.com. The loan interest rate for November 2025 is 7.986% p.a. compounded half-yearly. g. The loan interest rate will be reviewed monthly by Us and any change in the interest rate shall be effective from 15th of the month. h. The basis for computing loan interest will be reviewed from time to time and may be revised subject to the prior approval of the IRDAI. What happens if you stop paying your premiums? ┼Ė For ŌĆ£Immediate Income with BoosterŌĆØ variant: iii) Paid-up bene’¼üts are as explained below: ┼Ė For ŌĆ£Immediate IncomeŌĆØ and ŌĆ£Deferred IncomeŌĆØ variants: On death during the policy term, the paid-up Sum Assured on Death and Interim Paid-up Survival Bene’¼üt* (if any) plus Contingent Terminal Bonus, if declared, will be payable. Paid-up Sum Assured on Death = Higher of {Sum Assured on Death X {number of months for which premiums are paid / (12 X Premium Payment Term)}, 105% of Total premiums paid} I) If you have not paid premium of at least one full policy year then the policy will lapse on expiry of grace period. If you do not revive the lapsed policy by the end of revival period, it will terminate and no bene’¼üts will be payable. Interim Paid-up Survival Bene’¼üt = (Paid-up GI + Paid-up GB) * Months elapsed since last Survival Bene’¼üt payout date / 12, where the Paid-up GB will be applicable in case death happens in the policy year when the same is payable. In the event of death of the Life Assured on the Date of Maturity, then only the last Paid - Up Guaranteed Income and Paid - up Maturity Bene’¼üt (if applicable) is payable, and the Paid ŌĆō Up Death Bene’¼üt shall not be payable. It is recommended that you pay all premiums for the period selected to be able to enjoy all policy bene’¼üts. However, at any stage if you stop paying premiums the following shall be applicable: ii) If you stop paying premiums after you paid premiums for ’¼ürst full year, your policy is said to have become ŌĆ£paid-upŌĆØ. A paid-up policy is one where you are entitled to get bene’¼üts, but the bene’¼üts will be lower than full bene’¼üts, since you would have paid lesser than the total premiums supposed to be paid. a. Paid-up Death Bene’¼üt: Please read the section on Policy Revival mentioned below, which speci’¼ües how one can pay due premiums and revive the bene’¼üts of the policy. *The Interim Paid-up Survival Bene’¼üt will be computed as below: Interim Paid-up Survival Bene’¼üt = Paid-up GI * Months elapsed since last Survival Bene’¼üt payout date / 12 Bene’¼üts in Detail Number of premiums paid Number of premiums payable PAYMENT OF PREMIUMS PAY STOP b. Paid-up Survival Bene’¼üt: In case you have selected the ŌĆ£Immediate Income with BoosterŌĆØ plan variant at inception where you will receive $ Guaranteed Booster (GB), then the same shall be paid in the form of paid-up GB in the policy years' when it is due to be paid otherwise. v) In addition, on revival of a paid-up policy, the paid-up Sum Assured on Death, paid-up Sum Assured on Maturity and paid-up Survival Bene’¼üt will be restored to the original Sum Assured on Death, Sum Assured on Maturity and Survival Bene’¼üt, respectively. In addition, the difference between the Paid-up Survival Bene’¼üt already paid out during the revival period and the Survival Bene’¼üt for a premium paying or fully paid policy (as applicable) will also be payable to you. The above will include all applicable Cash Bonuses (or Fixed Cash Income, if applicable) declared since premium discontinuance up to the date of revival. The Contingent Terminal Bonus (if any) attached to the policy will be reversed. On survival of the life assured till the end of the policy term, for a paid-up policy, the following will be payable: ┼Ė Contingent Terminal Bonus (if declared). Maturity Bene’¼üt is the sum of Paid-up GI = Annual GI X {number of months for which premiums are paid / (12 X Premium Payment Term)}X Survival Bene’¼üt modal factor / Survival Bene’¼üt frequency factor c. Paid-up Maturity Bene’¼üt:: On survival of the Life Assured, on the respective due dates of the payment during the Income Term, paid-up survival bene’¼üt in the form of paid-up GI will be payable as per the prevailing income payment frequency after the Policy has become Paid-up , till termination of the policy due to death, surrender or maturity, whichever happens ’¼ürst. The frequency of paid-up GI will be as chosen by You. Paid-up GB = Annual GB X {number of months for which premiums are paid / (12 X Premium Payment Term)} X Survival Bene’¼üt modal factor / Survival Bene’¼üt frequency factor. Paid-up Sum Assured on Maturity = Sum Assured on Maturity X {number of months for which premiums are paid / (12 X Premium Payment Term)} iv) On revival of a lapsed policy, all bene’¼üts under the policy will be restored. All applicable Survival Bene’¼üts (GI, CB (if declared) and GB, if any) since premium discontinuance up to the date of revival shall become payable to you. ┼Ė Paid-up Sum Assured on Maturity, plus The ’¼ürst payment of paid-up GI (and paid-up GB, if due) bene’¼üt(s) will be made after the Policy converting to reduced paid-up status or due date of payment, whichever is later. Subsequently, each paid-up GI (and Paid-up GB, if due) payment(s) will be made on the respective due dates, as per the income payment frequency chosen. $In all plan options, guarantee is in the form of ŌĆśGuaranteed incomeŌĆÖ as regular income and ŌĆśSum assured on maturityŌĆÖ as a part of Maturity Bene’¼üt. Additionally, in ŌĆśImmediate Income with boosterŌĆÖ plan option, the ŌĆśGuaranteed boosterŌĆÖ also forms a part of guaranteed bene’¼üts. Guaranteed returns are payable subject to all due premiums being paid and survival of the life assured. Policy revival ┼Ė The arrears of premiums together with interest at such rate as the Company may charge for late payment of premiums are paid. Revival interest rate will be equal to 1.5% in addition to the prevailing yield on 10 year Government Securities. The yield on 10 year Government Securities will be sourced from www.bloomberg.com. The revival interest rate for November 2025 is 7.986% compounded half-yearly. ┼Ė You furnish, at your own expense, satisfactory evidence of health of the Life Assured as required by the prevailing Board approved underwriting policy. You can revive your policy bene’¼üts for their full value within ’¼üve years from the due date of the ’¼ürst unpaid premium by paying all due premiums together with interest before the termination date of the policy subject to underwriting and the following conditions: ┼Ė The revival interest rate will be reviewed on the 15th day of every month by the company based on the 10-year G-Sec yield of one day prior to such review. A policy which has discontinued payment of premium may be revived subject to underwriting and the following conditions: The revival of the policy may be on terms different from those applicable to the policy before premiums were discontinued; for example, extra mortality premiums or charges may be applicable. The revival will take effect only if it is speci’¼ücally communicated by the Company to you. The Company reserves the right to refuse to revive the policy. Any change in revival conditions will be subject to prior approval from IRDAI and will be disclosed to policyholders. ┼Ė The application for revival is made within 5 years from the due date of the ’¼ürst unpaid premium or the policy term, whichever is earlier. Revival will be based on the prevailing Board approved underwriting policy. Surrender On policy surrender, a Surrender Value equal to the higher of the following will be payable: GSV will be calculated as follows: For details on GSV factors for total premiums paid, please refer Clause 16 under Terms and Conditions below. ┼Ė Special Surrender Value (SSV) On payment of Surrender Value the policy will terminate and all rights, bene’¼üts and interests under the policy will stand extinguished. All the factors applicable to Guaranteed Surrender Value calculation are guaranteed throughout the policy term. $ $ Guaranteed Surrender Value $ You can surrender the policy any time after payment of at least one full policy year's premium(s). Prior to receipt of one full year's premium, no surrender value is payable. If any premium remains unpaid after the expiry of the grace period and at least one full policy years' premium has not been paid the policy's status shall be altered to lapsed status and the insurance cover will cease. No bene’¼üts are payable under a lapsed policy. If any premium remains unpaid after the expiry of the grace period and at least one full policy years' premium has been paid the policy's status shall be altered to paid-up status. Once a policy is altered to paid-up status, bene’¼üts under the policy shall get reduced as described later in this Section. ┼Ė $ Guaranteed Surrender Value (GSV) GSV = GSV Factor X Total Premiums Paid, less Survival Bene’¼üts (if any) paid till date, subject to a minimum of zero. For more details on Special Surrender Value and surrender bene’¼üt, please refer to the policy document. $In all plan options, guarantee is in the form of ŌĆśGuaranteed incomeŌĆÖ as regular income and ŌĆśSum assured on maturityŌĆÖ as a part of Maturity Bene’¼üt. Additionally, in ŌĆśImmediate Income with boosterŌĆÖ plan option, the ŌĆśGuaranteed boosterŌĆÖ also forms a part of guaranteed bene’¼üts. Guaranteed returns are payable subject to all due premiums being paid and survival of the life assured. Terms & Conditions 1. Suicide clause: In case of death due to suicide within 12 months from the date of commencement of risk under the policy or from the date of revival of the policy, as applicable, the Claimant shall be entitled to at least 80% of the total premiums paid till the date of death or the surrender value available as on the date of death whichever is higher, provided the policy is in force. In case any survival bene’¼üts have already been paid out, such amount already paid out shall be deducted from the amount payable on such death. The Policy will terminate on making such a payment and all rights, bene’¼üts and interests under the Policy will stand extinguished. 2. Free look period: On receipt of the Policy Document, whether received electronically or otherwise, You have an option to review the policy terms and conditions. If You are not satis’¼üed or have any disagreement with the terms and conditions of the Policy or otherwise and have not made any claim, the Policy Document needs to be returned to the Company with reasons for cancellation within 30 days from the date of receipt of the Policy Document ┼Ė On cancellation of the policy during the free look period, we will return the premium subject to the deduction of: a. Stamp duty under the policy, b. Expenses borne by the Company on medical examination, if any Cash Bonuses may be declared annually throughout the policy term for all three variants, and will be expressed as a proportion of the Annualized Premium. For each variant, an Interim Cash Bonus may also be payable (if declared) at the time of death 7. Bonuses: If the premium is not paid within the grace period before payment of at least one full policy years' premium the policy shall lapse, no bene’¼üts will be payable and the cover will cease. If the policy is not revived within the Revival Period then the policy shall be foreclosed and all rights and bene’¼üts under the policy shall be terminated. c. Proportionate risk premium for the period of cover 5. The payout dates shown in the illustrations in this document are only indicative and the actual payouts will be within a period of one week from the stated dates. The total premium mentioned in the illustrations in this document is exclusive of taxes, if any. The policy shall terminate on payment of this amount and all rights, bene’¼üts and interests under this policy will stand extinguished. 6. All ages mentioned are calculated as 'age as on last birthdayŌĆÖ. Bonuses will be applied through the simple bonus method. In case any survival bene’¼üts have already been paid out, such amount already paid out shall be deducted from the amount payable on free-look cancellation. 4. Grace Period: If the policyholder is unable to pay an installment premium by the due date, a grace period of 15 days will be given for payment of due installment premium for monthly frequency, and 30 days will be given for payment of due installment premium for any other frequency commencing from the premium due date. The life cover continues during the grace period. In case of Death of Life Assured during the grace period, the Company will pay the applicable Death Bene’¼üt. 3. Tax Bene’¼üts: Tax bene’¼üts may be available as per prevailing tax laws. Tax bene’¼üts under the policy are subject to conditions under provisions of the Income Tax Act, 2025. Taxes, if any, will be charged extra as per prevailing rates. Tax laws are subject to amendments made thereto from time to time. Please consult your tax advisor for more details. bene’¼üt payout during the inter-valuation period. For a new policy sold with Date of Commencement of Risk on or after April 1 in any ’¼ünancial year, there may not be any Cash Bonus rate declared for such policies when the Survival Bene’¼üt becomes due to be paid. In such circumstances, the Company will pay a ’¼üxed cash income bene’¼üt in lieu of Cash Bonus. This ’¼üxed cash income bene’¼üt will be based on a non-participating Cash Income rate (declared by the Company annually in advance and same as the cash bonus rate declared) and once declared shall remain guaranteed to be paid as part of Survival Bene’¼üt as and when it is due. Such payments in the form of ’¼üxed bene’¼üt shall continue till a Cash Bonus rate (as applicable for the policy) is declared and the Cash Bonus bene’¼üt, if declared, becomes payable at the next bene’¼üt due date. Such bonuses are non-guaranteed in nature and declaration of the same are at the discretion of the Company, and whilst the company intends to declare bonuses every year, it is possible that it may not declare any bonus for a given year. However, once declared, the bonus shall become guaranteed to be paid in accordance with the bene’¼üts offered under the product. The bonus rates declared (if any) may vary, as per discretion of the company, by: ┼Ė The policy status either in-force with no outstanding due premiums or in-force as reduced paid-up policy. The latter will be in the form of Contingent Terminal Bonus (if declared). The Contingent Terminal Bonus would be reversed on revival. Once a policy becomes a paid-up policy, no future cash or terminal bonuses shall be payable. 8. Premium, premium payment term, policy term and deferment period (if any) chosen at inception of policy cannot be changed. You have the ’¼éexibility to change the frequency of premium payment on policy anniversary. ┼Ė The contingency such as survival, death, surrender or maturity; and/or 12. Policies where Policyholder and Life Assured are different individuals: If the Policyholder and the Life Assured are different, then in the event of death of the Policyholder and upon subsequent intimation of the death with the Company: A separate Terminal Bonus may be declared under each variant, and will be payable on death, surrender and maturity, respectively, for a premium paying or a fully paid policy. 11. Policy on the Life of a Minor: If the policy has been taken on the life of a minor, on attaining the age of majority i.e. 18 years, the policy will vest on him/her. Thereafter, the Life Assured shall become the policyholder who will then be entitled to all the bene’¼üts and subject to all liabilities as per the terms and conditions of the policy. The Life Assured cum Policyholder can register due nomination as per Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. However, if the policy is assigned during the minority of the Life Assured, then the vesting of the policy shall be kept in abeyance till the assignment is valid and effective 10. Renewal Premium in advance: Collection of renewal premium in advance shall be allowed within the same ’¼ünancial year for the premium due in that ’¼ünancial year. Provided, the premium due in one ’¼ünancial year may be collected in advance in earlier ’¼ünancial year for a maximum period of three months in advance of the due date of the premium. The renewal premium so collected in advance shall only be adjusted on the due date of the premium . 9. A fully paid policy is a policy for which all premiums have been paid, as per the premium payment term selected, and no further premiums are due. A premium paying policy is policy for which all due premiums have been paid till date, but future premiums are payable for the rest of the premium payment term. Contingent Terminal Bonus may only explicitly accrue to policies that become paid-up, if at least one full years' premiums is paid. The Contingent Terminal Bonus (if declared) will accrue to the policy at the time of policy becoming paid up and will be payable to these policies on termination due to death, surrender or maturity (whichever happens ’¼ürst). ┼Ė majority. Upon attaining the age of majority the policy ownership shall be changed according to Clause 11 mentioned above; ┼Ė If the Life Assured is major: the policy shall vest on the Life Assured. Thereafter, the Life Assured shall become the Policyholder and will be entitled to all bene’¼üts and subject to all liabilities as per the terms and conditions of the policy. The Life Assured cum Policyholder can register due nomination as per Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. 14. All survival bene’¼üts shall be paid Annually in Arrears by default. You have an additional option to receive the survival bene’¼üts i.e. ŌĆ£Monthly in arrearsŌĆØ or ŌĆ£Annual in AdvanceŌĆØ depending upon the plan option chosen: 13. The product is also available for sale through online mode. I. For Immediate Income and Immediate Income with Booster Options: If you have chosen a non-annual premium payment frequency, You have the following options to receive the Survival Bene’¼üt. a. Annual in Arrears (Default Option): The Survival bene’¼üt will be payable at the end of every Policy Year subject to the policy being in-force on the date of payment and realization of all due premium(s) by the Company. b. Monthly in arrears: If this frequency is opted by You, then You shall receive the Survival Bene’¼üts at the end of each Policy Month (i.e. due date) commencing from the Income Start Date for the Income Term. During the Premium Payment Term, any Survival Bene’¼üts (if due) will be paid out within seven working days of realization of each due installmentpremium by the Company or on the due date, whichever is later. Post premium payment term, such Survival Bene’¼üts (if due) will be paid out on the respective due dates. If you have chosen an annual premium payment frequency, then in addition to the above mentioned options, You have an additional option to receive the Survival Bene’¼üts i.e. ŌĆ£Annually in AdvanceŌĆØ. ┼Ė Annual in advance: If this frequency is opted by you, then You will receive the survival bene’¼üt at the beginning of each policy year (i.e. due date) during the income term commencing from the income start date for the income term. In case income term starts from the ’¼ürst policy year, such survival bene’¼üt will be paid out within seven working days of realization of the ’¼ürst year's premium by the company post issuance of the policy. For any subsequent policy year during the premium payment term, such survival bene’¼üts (if due) will be paid out within seven working days of realization of the respective policy year's renewal premium by the Company or on the due date, whichever is later. Post premium payment term, such survival bene’¼üts (if due) will be paid out on the respective due dates. The payout option chosen by You to receive the Survival Bene’¼üt is as mentioned in the Policy Schedule. This option needs to be selected at policy inception and cannot be changed by You during the Policy Term. i. For Deferred Income Plan:: You have the following options to receive the Survival Bene’¼üt: b. Monthly in Arrears: You also have an option to receive the Survival Bene’¼üt at the end of each Policy Month (ŌĆ£Monthly in ArrearsŌĆØ) commencing from the end of the Deferment Period. i. In the event Premium Payment Frequency is changed by You from an Annual to a non-annual mode during the Premium Payment Term and where You had originally chosen to receive the Survival Bene’¼üts as ŌĆ£Annual in AdvanceŌĆØ, then the Survival Bene’¼üts payment frequency will be altered by Us such that all future Survival Bene’¼üts payments will be paid ŌĆ£at the end of respective Policy Years (i.e ŌĆ£Annual in Arrears/ default optionŌĆØ) effective from the same Policy Anniversary on which the premium frequency change takes effect. The Survival Bene’¼üt Payment frequency applicable to you is as mentioned in the Policy Schedule. This option needs to be selected at policy inception and cannot be changed by You during the Policy Term. a. Annually in Arrears (Default Option): The Survival Bene’¼üt shall be payable at the end of every Policy Year commencing from the end of the Deferment Period. Instalment Survival Bene’¼üt will be calculated as Annual Survival Bene’¼üt * Survival Bene’¼üt modal factor├Ę Survival Bene’¼üt frequency factor. ii. Following Survival Bene’¼üts modal factors would apply on the annual Survival Bene’¼üt (as de’¼üned in section above) depending on the income frequency chosen by the policyholder. Any change in modal factor will be subject to prior approval from IRDAI. 15. For monthly and half-yearly modes of premium payments, additional loadings will be applied to both the base premium and the extra mortality premium. The additional loadings, expressed as a percentage of the annual premium will be as given below. 18. Assignment: Assignment shall be as per Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. For more details on this section, please refer to our website. 17. Nomination: Nomination shall be as per Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. For more details on this section, please refer to our website. 16. GSV factors: Policy Year of Surrender 1 2 3 4 to 7 8 to (Policy Term less 2) Policy Term less 1 to Policy Term GSV factor 15% 30% 35% 50% 50% + 40% ├Ś (Policy Year ŌĆō 7) ├Ę (Policy Term ŌĆō 8) 90% Mode of Premium Payment Monthly Half-yearly Yearly Loading (% of Annualized Premium) 4.5% 2.5% Nil Frequency Monthly in arrears Annual in Advance Annual in Arrears Survival Bene’¼üt Frequency factor 12 1 1 Survival Bene’¼üt Modal 96% 92% 100% In case of fraud or misstatement, the policy shall be cancelled immediately by paying the surrender value, subject to the fraud or misstatement being established by the Company in accordance with Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. Address: 20. Section 45: 1) No policy of life insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after the expiry of three years from the date of the policy, i.e., from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later. 2) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground of fraud: Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision is based. 3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance policy on the ground of fraud if the insured can prove that the mis-statement of or suppression of a material fact was true to the best of his knowledge and belief or that there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such mis- statement of or suppression of a material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer: Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving lies upon the bene’¼üciaries, in case the policyholder is not alive. 4) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground that any statement of or suppression of a fact material to the expectancy of the life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or other document on the basis of which the policy was issued or revived or rider issued: Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based: Provided further that in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of misstatement or suppression of a material fact, and not on the ground of fraud, the premiums collected on the policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured within a period of ninety days from the date of such repudiation. 5) Nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer from calling for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so, and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the Life Insured was incorrectly stated in the proposal. Unit 901A & 901B, 1001A & 1002B, Prism Towers, 19. Section 41: In accordance with Section 41 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time, no person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement to any person to take or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the insurer. 21. For further details, please refer to the policy document and the bene’¼üt illustration. 22. Policy Servicing and Grievance Handling Mechanism: For any clari’¼ücation or assistance, You may contact Our advisor or call Our customer service representative (between 10.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m, Monday to Saturday; excluding national holidays) on the numbers mentioned on the reverse of the Policy folder or on Our website: www.iciciprulife.com. For updated contact details, We request You to regularly check Our website. If You do not receive any resolution from Us or if You are not satis’¼üed with Our resolution, You may get in touch with Our designated grievance redressal of’¼ücer (GRO) at gro@iciciprulife.com or 1800-2660. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited Mindspace Link Road, Goregaon West, Mumbai ŌĆō 400104 For more details, please refer to the "Grievance Redressal" section on www.iciciprulife.com. If You do not receive any resolution or if You are not satis’¼üed with the resolution provided by the GRO, You may escalate the matter to Our internal grievance redressal committee at the address mentioned below: ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited Unit 901A & 901B, 1001A & 1002B, Prism Towers, Mindspace Link Road, Goregaon West, Mumbai ŌĆō 400104. If you are not satis’¼üed with the response or do not receive a response from us within 15 days, you may approach Policyholders' Protection and Grievance Redressal Department, the Grievance Cell of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) on the following contact details: Email ID: complaints@irdai.gov.in Address for communication for complaints by fax/paper: Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India Hyderabad, Telangana State ŌĆō 500032 IRDAI Grievance Call Centre (BIMA BHAROSA SHIKAYAT NIVARAN KENDRA) You can also register your complaint online at bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in. This is subject to change from time to time. Refer https://www.iciciprulife.com/services/grievance-redressal.html for more details. Survey No. 115/1, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, 155255 (or) 1800 4254 732 Policyholders' Protection and Grievance Redressal Department ŌĆō Grievance Redressal Cell Appendix I: Death Bene’¼üt Multiples 6 Ōēż 5 12 Age 8 9 14 11 7 16 10 13 15 15.0 14.9 14.8 14.7 14.6 14.4 14.3 Multiple 14.5 14.2 13.9 14.0 14.1 18 25 22 20 27 21 23 Age 19 24 28 17 26 13.4 13.1 13.0 13.2 Multiple 13.6 13.5 13.8 13.7 12.8 13.3 12.9 12.7 29 Age 31 35 32 34 36 39 40 30 37 38 33 12.5 12.3 12.2 12.0 11.8 11.7 11.6 11.5 12.1 12.4 11.9 Multiple 12.6 Age 42 47 49 45 41 43 46 44 48 Ōēź 50 10.6 10.8 Multiple 10.7 11.3 11.1 11.0 11.4 11.2 10.9 10.5 ┬® ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Registered with Insurance Regulatory & Development Authority of India (IRDAI) as Life Insurance Company. Regn. No. 105. CIN: L66010MH2000PLC127837. Reg. Off.: ICICI PruLife Towers, 1089 Appasaheb Marathe Marg, Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400025. Tel.: 40391600. Member of the Life Insurance Council. For more details on the risk factors, term and conditions please read the product brochure carefully before concluding the sale. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to ICICI Bank Ltd & Prudential IP services Ltd and used by ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd under license. ICICI Pru Gold. Form No.: E35. UIN:105N190V06. Advt No.:L/II/1563/2025-26. IRDAI is not involved in activities like selling insurance policies, announcing bonus or investment of premiums. Public receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint. BEWARE OF SUSPICIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS/FRAUDULENT OFFERS For More Information: Customers calling from anywhere in India, please dial 1800 2660 Do not pre’¼üx this number with ŌĆ£+ŌĆØ or ŌĆ£91ŌĆØ or ŌĆ£00ŌĆØ Call Centre Timings: 10.00 am to 7.00 pm Monday to Saturday, except National Holidays. To know more, please visit www.iciciprulife.com ICICI Prudential Life Insurance has maintained its focus on offering a wide range of savings and protection products that meet the different life stage requirements of customers. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited is a joint venture between ICICI Bank Limited and Prudential Corporation Holdings Limited, a part of the Prudential group. ICICI Prudential began its operations in Fiscal 2001 after receiving approval from Insurance Regulatory Development Authority of India (IRDAI) in November 2000. About ICICI Prudential Life Insurance