Get life cover to protect your family’s future. A safe journey to a rising future Key benefits ICICI Pru Future Perfect provides you: In our day to day lives, we strive towards achieving our goals: purchasing a flat, securing our children’s future needs, dream vacation in an exotic location and living peacefully after retirement. We bring you an ideal savings and protection oriented plan, ICICI Pru Future Perfect to help you fulfill these goals. Understanding your needs • Savings with the comfort of guarantees - At maturity of the policy, you receive: » Guaranteed Maturity Benefit (GMB) » Accrued Guaranteed Additions (GAs) » Vested reversionary bonuses, if any » Terminal bonus, if any • Protection - Get life cover for the entire policy term • Tax benefits – Tax benefits apply to premiums paid T&C3 and benefits received as per the prevailing tax laws • Flexibility - Choose premium payment term, premium payment frequency, premium and policy term as per your need ICICI Pru Future Perfect at a glance Benefits in detail Death benefit Sum Assured on Death is defined as, highest of • Guaranteed Maturity benefit(GMB) On death of the life assured during the policy term, for a premium paying or fully paid policy , the following will be payable: A = Sum Assured on Death, plus subsisting bonuses* already accrued, plus accrued guaranteed additions All the policy benefits are subject to the policy being in force. A policy is in force if it is premium paying, fully paid-up or partly paid-up. Where B = 105% of all the premiums received till the date of death Death Benefit = Higher of (A,B), • 10 X Annualised Premium *Bonuses consist of accrued reversionary bonuses, interim bonus and terminal bonus, if any. Premium payment option Limited Pay 5 10 to 15 3 / 60 18 / 75 ₹30,000 Taxes (if any) will be charged extra, as per applicable rates and prevailing tax laws. Tax laws are subject to amendments from time to time. 7 12 to 17 1 / 60 18 / 77 Premium payment term (PPT) (years) Policy term (years) Minimum annual premium (`) Min / Max age at entry (years) Min / Max age at maturity (years) Minimum Basic Sum Assured on Death Premium paying frequency ₹3,00,000 Annual / Half-yearly / Monthly 10 15 to 20 60 91 days/ 18 / 80 12 17 to 25 60 91 days/ 18 / 85 20 25 to 30 91 days/60 18 / 85 15 20 to 25 91 days/60 18 / 85 E = 100.1% X annualized premium Maturity Benefit = Higher of (D, E) All policy benefits cease on payment of the death benefit In the event of death of the Life Assured on the Date of Maturity, only the Maturity Benefit (if applicable) is payable and the Death Benefit shall not be payable. + terminal bonus, if any o After PPT: GA will accrue at the beginning of policy year *For monthly premium frequency, 1/12th times GA will be accrued every month on premium payment. For half yearly premium frequency, 0.5 times GA will be accrued on premium payment. Reversionary bonus, if any, will be declared each year during the term of the policy starting from the first policy year. Maturity benefit o During PPT: GA will accrue on premium payment* Where, D = Guaranteed Maturity Benefit (GMB) Guaranteed Additions (GAs) as a percentage of annualized premium is set out in the following table: Your GMB will be set at policy inception and will depend on age, policy term, premium payment term, annualized premium and gender. Your GMB may be lower than your Sum Assured on death. + accrued Guaranteed Additions On survival of the life assured till the Date of Maturity, for a policy on which all due premiums are paid, the following will be payable: + subsisting reversionary bonuses already accrued to the policy, if any • For example: For a male life aged 35 years, with a PPT of 10 years, policy term of 20 years, premium of ` 30,000 paid annually the GMB is ` 2,70,348. An illustration of the total benefits that you can receive is shown in the benefit illustration. 10% 12% 15% 18% 8% 10% 12% 15% 1 - 5 6 – 10 11 – 15 16 onwards 5 years or 7 years 10 years, 12 years, 15 years or 20 years Policy year/ PPT } GSV factors shall be as follows: Surrender benefit You can Surrender the policy any time after payment of at least one full year's Premiums. Prior to receipt of one full year's premium, no surrender value is payable On policy surrender, you will get higher of the following: • Guaranteed Surrender Value plus (GSV) • Special Surrender Value (SSV). GSV will be calculated as follows: GSV = GSV Factor x Total premiums paid plus 30% x (Vested reversionary bonuses + Accrued Guaranteed Additions) Where, Please note, if you discontinue your premiums before you pay at least one full years' premium, no benefits will be payable under the policy. For more details on SSV and Surrender Benefit, please refer to the policy document. If payment of Instalment Premium is discontinued by You, before the end of the Premium Payment Term but with at least one full years' premium paid, the Policy shall be converted to a ‘Paid-up’ Policy and shall continue with reduced benefits as explained below: If you discontinue premium payment before you pay at least one full years' premium, your policy will lapse and no benefits will be paid. However, you can revive the policy within five years from the due date of the first unpaid premium. What happens if you discontinue your premiums? } Policy Year of Surrender 1 2 3 4 to 7 8 to (Policy Term less 2) Policy Term less 1 to Policy Term GSV factor 15% 30% 35% 50% 50% + 40% × (Policy Year – 7) ÷ (Policy Term – 8) 90% On survival of the life assured till the Date of Maturity, once the policy has acquired paid up status, the paid- up GMB, Paid-up GAs, along with vested reversionary bonuses and contingent reversionary bonus, if any, will be payable. On death of the life assured during the policy term when the policy is paid-up, the paid-up Sum Assured on death, paid-up Gas, vested reversionary bonuses and contingent reversionary bonus, if any, will be payable. In the event of death of the Life Assured on the date of maturity while the policy in paid up status , only the paid-up maturity benefit (if applicable) is payable and the paid-up death benefit shall not be payable. A paid-up policy will not be entitled to future reversionary bonuses or terminal bonus. However, contingent reversionary bonus may be given instead at the point the policy is made paid-up. For more details on paid-up policies, please refer to the policy document. A policy which has discontinued payment of premiums may be revived subject to underwriting and the following conditions: • The application for revival is made within 5 years from the due date of the first unpaid premium and before the termination date of policy. Revival will be based on the prevailing Board approved underwriting policy. Revival of the policy Paid-up Guaranteed Additions = Sum of all GAs payable at Maturity X number of months for which premiums are paid (12 X Premium Payment Term) GMB X number of months for which premiums are paid (12 X Premium Payment Term) Paid-up Guaranteed Maturity Benefit = Higher of {Sum Assured on death X (Total number of premiums paid) (12 X Premium Payment Term), 105% of total premiums paid} Paid-up Sum Assured on Death = On revival of a paid-up policy, the paid-up Sum Assured on death, paid-up GAs and paid-up GMB will be restored to the Sum Assured on death, GAs and GMB applicable at the time of premium discontinuance. All applicable GAs, and reversionary bonuses declared since premium discontinuance up to the date of revival, shall accrue to the policy and the contingent reversionary bonus attached to the policy will be reversed. • The arrears of premiums together with interest at such rate as the Company may charge for late payment of premiums are paid. Revival interest rates will be set monthly and is equal to 150 basis points in addition to the prevailing yield on 10 year Government Securities. The yield on 10 year Government Securities will be sourced from . www.bloomberg.com • The revival interest rate will be reviewed on the 15th day of every month by the company based on the 10-year G-Sec yield of one day prior to such review. The interest rate applicable in January 2026 is 8.26% p.a. compounded half yearly. • The policyholder furnishes, at his own expense, satisfactory evidence of health of the life assured as required by the Company. The revival of the policy may be on terms different from those applicable to the policy before premiums were discontinued; for example, extra mortality premiums or charges may be applicable. We reserve the right to refuse to revive the Policy. The revival will take effect only if it is specifically communicated by the Company to the policyholder. Benefit Illustration for ICICI Pru Future Perfect – Limited Pay Age at entry: 35 years Policy term: 20 years 10 years Premium paying term: Premium paying mode: Yearly Annual premium: ` 30,000 ` 3,00,000 ` 3,03,000 Total Premium paid Sum Assured on Death: Ÿ Before any benefits are paid out, loan outstanding together with the interest thereon if any will be deducted and the balance amount will be payable. Ÿ For availing this feature of Loan, the policy shall be assigned to Company. These illustrations are for a healthy male life assured. The guaranteed benefits under the policy are clearly marked as “guaranteed”. The reversionary bonuses and terminal bonuses are not guaranteed and are dependent on future performance. The benefits in the illustration given above are indicative and are shown at different rates of assumed future investment returns. The maturity benefit of your policy is dependent on a number of factors, including future performance. Ÿ For inforce and/or fully paid-up policies, the policy can't be foreclosed on the ground of outstanding loan amount including interest exceeding the surrender value. Ÿ Loan amount of up to 80% of Surrender Value can be availed. Ÿ Loans are available provided a positive surrender value is payable under the policy at the time of disbursement of the same. Loans Ÿ Applicable interest rate will be equal to 150 basis points in addition to the prevailing yield on 10 year Government Securities. The yield on 10-year Government Securities will be sourced from HYPERLINK Ÿ For other than in-force and fully paid-up policies, if the outstanding loan amount including interest exceeds the Surrender Value, the policy will be Foreclosed. You shall be given due intimation/ notice prior to the policy foreclosure as a reasonable opportunity for continuing the policy. On Foreclosure, the Policy will terminate, and all rights, benefits and interests under the policy will stand extinguished. What other benefits do you get? Benefits @ 4% # ARR (`) Benefits @ 8% # ARR (`) Benefits Total Guaranteed Benefit on Maturity (A) = (i) + (ii) Guaranteed Maturity Benefit (i) Guaranteed Additions on Maturity (ii) Estimated accrued reversionary bonuses (B) Estimated terminal bonus (C) Estimated Maturity Benefit (A+B+C) 3,52,848 2,70,348 82,500 3,827 78,054 4,34,729 3,52,848 2,70,348 82,500 1,51,532 2,07,082 7,11,463 #Assumed Rate of Return Taxes (if any) will be charged extra, as per applicable rates and prevailing tax laws. Tax laws are subject to amendments from time to time. Terms & Conditions The Policy will terminate on making such a payment and all rights, benefits and interests under the Policy will stand extinguished. 2. Free look period: On receipt of the policy document, whether received electronically or otherwise, You have an option to review the policy terms and conditions. If You are not satisfied or have any disagreement with the terms and conditions of the Policy or otherwise and have not made any claim, the Policy Document needs to be returned to the Company with reasons for cancellation within 30 days from the date of receipt of the Policy Document. We will refund the premium paid after deduction of Stamp duty, proportionate risk premium for the period of cover and the expenses borne by Us on medical tests, if any. The Policy shall terminate on payment of this amount and all rights, benefits and interests under this Policy will stand extinguished. 3. Tax benefits: Tax benefits may be available as per prevailing tax laws. Tax benefits under the policy are subject to prevailing conditions and provisions of the Income Tax Act, 2025. Taxes, if any, will be charged extra as per applicable rates. The tax laws are subject to amendments made thereto from time to time. Please consult your tax advisor for details 4. Grace Period: If the policyholder is unable to pay an installment premium by the due date, a grace period 1. Suicide clause: If the Life Assured, whether sane or insane, commits suicide within 12 months from the date of commencement of risk under this policy, higher of 80% of total premiums paid, if any till the date of death or the surrender value as available on till the date of death will be payable. In the case of a revived Policy, if the Life Assured, whether sane or insane, commits suicide within one year of the date of revival of the Policy, higher of 80% of the total premiums paid, if any till the date of death or surrender value as available on death will be payable. Ÿ The basis for computing loan interest will be reviewed from time to time and may be revised subject to the prior approval of the IRDAI. "http://www.bloomberg.com"www.bloomberg.com. The loan interest rate in January 2026 is 8.26% p.a. compounded half-yearly. Ÿ The loan interest rate will be reviewed monthly by Us and any change in the interest rate shall be effective from 15th of the month. 5. Premium payment term and policy term chosen at inception of policy cannot be changed. of 15 days will be given for payment of due installment premium for monthly frequency, and 30 days will be given for payment of due installment premium for any other frequency, commencing from the premium due date. The life cover continues during the grace period. In case of Death of Life Assured during the grace period, the Company will pay the applicable Death Benefit. If the premium is not paid within the grace period before completion of one full years' premium, the policy shall lapse and cover will cease. If the policy is not revived within the Revival Period then the policy shall be foreclosed and all rights and benefits under the policy shall be terminated. 8. A fully paid policy is a policy for which all premiums have been paid, as per the PPT selected, and no further premiums are due. A premium paying policy is policy for which all due premiums have been paid till date, but future premiums are payable for the rest of the PPT. 7. After completion of the policy term, the policy will not participate in profits. 11. Policy on the Life of a Minor: If the policy has been taken on the life of a minor, on attaining the age of majority i.e. 18 years, the policy will vest on him/her. Thereafter, the Life Assured shall become the policyholder who will then be entitled to all the benefits and subject to all liabilities as per the terms and conditions of the policy. Subsequently, the Life Assured cum Policyholder can register due nomination 9. Reversionary bonuses may be declared every financial year and will accrue to the policy if it is premium paying or fully paid. Reversionary bonuses will be applied through the compounding bonus method. All reversionary bonuses will be declared as a proportion of the sum of the GMB and the accrued reversionary bonuses, if any. Reversionary bonus once declared is guaranteed and will be paid out at maturity or on earlier death. Contingent reversionary bonus may be declared every financial year and will explicitly accrue only when a policy is made paid-up Contingent Reversionary Bonus is also payable for premium paying and fully paid policies that are surrendered.. Contingent reversionary bonus will be a part of the paid up benefit and will be paid on maturity, surrender or earlier death. A terminal bonus may also be payable at maturity or on earlier death. 10. Renewal Premium in Advance : Collection of renewal premium shall be allowed, provided the premium is collected within the same financial year. However, where the renewal premium due in one financial year is being collected in advance in earlier financial year, insurers may collect the same for a maximum period of three months in advance of the due date of the premium. The renewal premium so collected in advance shall only be adjusted on the due date of the premium. 6. The product is also available for sale through online mode. 12. Policies where Policyholder and Life Assured are different individuals: If the Policyholder and the Life Assured are different, then in the event of death of the Policyholder and upon subsequent intimation of the death with the Company: If the Life Assured is major: the policy shall vest on the Life Assured. Thereafter, the Life Assured shall become the Policyholder and will be entitled to all benefits and subject to all liabilities as per the terms and conditions of the policy. The Life Assured cum Policyholder can register due nomination as per Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. as per Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. However, if the policy is assigned during the minority of the Life Assured, then the vesting of the policy shall be kept in abeyance till the assignment is valid and effective. 14. Assignment: Assignment in the policy will be governed by Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time. For more details on this section, please refer to our website. 13. Nomination: Nomination in the Policy will be governed by Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time. For more details on this section, please refer to our website. Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this section shall be punishable with fine which may extend to ten lakh rupees. 15. Section 41: In accordance with Section 41 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time, no person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement to any person to take or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the insurer. If the Life Assured is a minor: the policy shall vest on the guardian of the minor life assured till he/she attains the age of majority. Upon attaining the age of majority the policy ownership shall be changed according to Clause 10 mentioned above; 16. Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time: 1) No policy of life insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after the expiry of three years from the date of the policy, i.e., from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later. 18. Policy Servicing and Grievance Handling Mechanism: For any clarification or assistance, You may contact Our advisor or call Our customer service representative (between 10.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m, 5) Nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer from calling for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so, and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the Life Insured was incorrectly stated in the proposal. 17. For further details, please refer to the policy document and the benefit illustration. 3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance policy on the ground of fraud if the insured can prove that the mis-statement of or suppression of a material fact was true to the best of his knowledge and belief or that there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of or suppression of a material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer: Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving lies upon the beneficiaries, in case the policyholder is not alive. 2) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground of fraud: Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision is based. 4) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground that any statement of or suppression of a fact material to the expectancy of the life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or other document on the basis of which the policy was issued or revived or rider issued: Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based: Provided further that in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of misstatement or suppression of a material fact, and not on the ground of fraud, the premiums collected on the policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured within a period of ninety days from the date of such repudiation. In case of fraud or misrepresentation, the policy shall be cancelled immediately by paying the surrender value, subject to the fraud or misrepresentation being established by the Company in accordance with Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time. Policyholders' Protection and Grievance Redressal Department – Grievance Redressal Cell You can also register your complaint online at bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in. Survey No. 115/1, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Refer https://www.iciciprulife.com/services/grievance-redressal.html for more details. Email ID: complaints@irdai.gov.in Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India 155255 (or) 1800 4254 732 Hyderabad, Telangana State – 500032. IRDAI Grievance Call Centre (BIMA BHAROSA SHIKAYAT NIVARAN KENDRA) This is subject to change from time to time. Address for communication for complaints by fax/paper: ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, Unit No. 901A, 901B, 1001A & 1002B, Prism Towers, Mindspace, Link Road, Goregaon (West), Mumbai- 400104. Maharashtra. Monday to Saturday; excluding national holidays) on the numbers mentioned on the reverse of the Policy folder or on Our website: www.iciciprulife.com. For updated contact details, We request You to regularly check Our website. If You do not receive any resolution from Us or if You are not satisfied with Our resolution, You may get in touch with Our designated grievance redressal officer (GRO) at gro@iciciprulife.com or 1800-2660. If you are not satisfied with the response or do not receive a response from us within 15 days, you may approach Policyholders' Protection and Grievance Redressal Department, the Grievance Cell of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) on the following contact details: Address: ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, Unit No. 901A, 901B, 1001A & 1002B, Prism Towers, Mindspace, Link Road, Goregaon (West), Mumbai- 400104. Maharashtra. For more details, please refer to the "Grievance Redressal" section on www.iciciprulife.com. If You do not receive any resolution or if You are not satisfied with the resolution provided by the GRO, You may escalate the matter to Our internal grievance redressal committee at the address mentioned below: ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited. Registered Office: ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, ICICI PruLife Towers, 1089, Appasaheb Marathe Marg, Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400 025. This product brochure is indicative of the terms, conditions, warranties, and exceptions contained in the insurance policy. For further details, please refer to the policy document. In the event of conflict, if any, between the contents of this brochure and those contained in the policy document, the terms and conditions contained in the policy document shall prevail. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to ICICI Bank Ltd & Prudential IP Services Ltd and used by ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd under license. E21 :L/II/1898/2025-26. ICICI Pru Future Perfect Form No. UIN. 105N153V05. Advt. No. BEWARE OF SUSPICIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS/FRAUDULENT OFFERS Public receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint. IRDAI is not involved in activities like selling insurance policies, announcing bonus or investment of premiums. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Regn. No. 105. CIN: L66010MH2000PLC127837 Call Centre Timings: 10.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m. Monday to Saturday, except National Holidays. To know more, please visit www.iciciprulife.com For More Information: Customers calling from any where in India, please dial 1800 2660 Do not prefix this number with “+” or “91” or “00” ICICI Prudential Life Insurance has maintained its focus on offering a wide range of savings and protection products that meet the different life stage requirements of customers. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited is a joint venture between ICICI Bank Limited and Prudential Corporation Holdings Limited, a part of the Prudential group. ICICI Prudential began its operations in Fiscal 2001 after receiving approval from Insurance Regulatory Development Authority of India (IRDAI) in November 2000. About ICICI Prudential Life Insurance