Online IN ULIPS, THE INVESTMENT RISK IN THE INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO IS BORNE BY THE POLICYHOLDER MORE Security for family with a Life cover Value for Money ONLINE This is a unit linked insurance plan. In this policy, the investment risk in investment portfolio is borne by the Policyholder. Unit linked Insurance products do not offer any liquidity during the ﬁrst ﬁve years of the contract. The Policyholder will not be able to surrender / withdraw the monies invested in unit linked insurance products completely or partially till the end of the ﬁfth year. Presenting ICICI Pru Signature - a savings and protection oriented unit linked insurance plan, designed for the preferred customer like you. Along with a life cover to secure your family in case you are not around, this plan offers ﬂexible savings options to help you achieve your goals. What makes ICICI Pru Signature special Tax beneﬁts may be applicable on premiums paid and beneﬁts received as per prevailing tax laws Life Cover for the entire policy term so that your family is ﬁnancially secured even in your absence Wealth Boosters at the end of every 5 years starting from the end of 10th policy year Systematic withdrawal plan to withdraw money regularly from your policy Flexible Options: Choice of 4 portfolio strategies and wide range of funds across equity, balanced and debt to suit your saving needs Enjoy policy beneﬁts till 99 years of age with Whole Life policy term option Entire premium without any deductions is allocated among the funds of your choice Return of Mortality and Policy Administration Charges at maturity Key Beneﬁts We will contribute to your wealth creation by allocating extra units to your policy at the end of every 5th policy year starting from the end of 10th policy year till the end of your policy term. Each Wealth Booster will be equal to 3.25% of the average of the Fund Values, on the last business day of the last eight policy quarters. Wealth Boosters will be allocated among the funds in the same proportion as the value of total units held in each fund at the time of allocation. Allocation of Wealth Boosters is guaranteed and shall not be revoked by the company under any circumstances. Wealth Boosters The amount equal to total of mortality charges and policy administration charges deducted in the policy will be added back to the fund value at maturity, provided all due premiums have been received. This amount will be allocated among the funds in the same proportion as the value of total units held in each fund at the time of allocation. This shall exclude any extra mortality charges and taxes levied on the charges deducted as per prevailing tax laws. Return of Mortality Charges and Policy Administration Charges is not applicable for Whole Life option. Return of Mortality Charges and Policy Administration Charges Decide the level of life cover, premium amount, premium payment option and policy term to match your ﬁnancial protection and savings needs 1 2 On maturity of the policy, get maturity beneﬁt as a lump sum or as periodic payouts through settlement option 3 4 Start your wealth creation journey with 4 simple steps Choose the Portfolio Strategy and funds you want to save in In case of your unfortunate death during the policy term, your nominee/ legal heir will receive the death beneﬁt ICICI Pru Signature at a glance Premium payment term (PPT) Premium payment option Limited Pay Limited Pay-Whole life option Regular Pay Minimum 5 years 10 years 15 years Maximum 12 years 15 years Same as policy term Minimum / Maximum Policy terms in years 15- 30 years, Whole Life For Whole Life policy term option, policy term will be equal to 99 minus Age at entry Minimum / Maximum premium For policies other than Whole Life: ` 30,000 p.a. – Unlimited For Whole Life option: ` 60,000 p.a. – Unlimited Premium payment modes Yearly, Half-Yearly and Monthly Sum Assured For policies other than WholeLife: Age at entry 0 to 49 years 50 years and above Minimum Sum Assured 7 X Annualised Premium 5 X Annualised Premium 10 X Annualized Premium 10 X Annualised Premium Maximum Sum Assured For WholeLife option: Age at entry 0 to 49 years 50 years and above Minimum Sum Assured 7 X Annualised Premium 5 X Annualised Premium 10 X Annualized Premium 10 X Annualised Premium Maximum Sum Assured Top-up Sum Assured 1.25 X Top-up premium Age at entry Minimum entry age: 0 years Maximum entry age: 60 years Age at maturity For policies other than Whole Life: Minimum maturity age: 18 years Maximum maturity age: 75 years For Whole Life option: Maturity age: 99 years Plan your life goals with Whole Life policy term option. You can withdraw funds at various intervals to fund different goals such as children’s education, dream house or additional money for day-to-day expenses. You can also use Systematic Withdrawals to plan regular payouts in your post retirement years. For minor lives, life cover commences from the date of commencement of the policy. In case of minor life assured, the policy will vest in the name of the life assured when he / she turns major during the policy term. Beneﬁts in detail In the unfortunate event of death of the Life Assured during the term of the policy, provided the monies are not in the Discontinued Policy fund, the following will be payable to the Claimant. Death Beneﬁt = A or B or C whichever is highest where, A = Sum Assured, including Top-up Sum Assured, if any B = Minimum Death Beneﬁt C = Fund Value as available on date of intimation of death or Date of Foreclosure or Date of Maturity whichever is earlier Minimum Death Beneﬁt will be 105% of the total premiums including Top-up premiums, if any received up to the date of death. Death Beneﬁt On maturity of the policy, you will receive the Fund Value . You have the option to receive the Maturity Beneﬁt either as a lump sum or as a structured payout using Settlement Option. Maturity Beneﬁt This facility is designed to help you provide liquidity so that any immediate ﬁnancial need can be met. You can avail this any time after the completion of Lock-in period provided the monies are not in the Discontinued Policy Fund. You can make unlimited number of partial withdrawals as long as the total amount of partial withdrawals in a year does not exceed 20% of the Fund Value in a policy year. The partial withdrawals are free of cost. The following conditions apply on partial withdrawals: • Partial withdrawals are allowed only after the ﬁrst ﬁve policy years and on payment of all premiums for the ﬁrst ﬁve policy years. • In the case of minor lives, partial withdrawals shall not be allowed until the minor life insured attains majority i.e. on or after attainment of age 18 • For the purpose of partial withdrawals, lock in period for the Top-up premiums will be ﬁve years or any such limit prescribed by IRDAI from time to time. • Partial withdrawals will be made ﬁrst from the Top-up Fund Value, if any, which has completed the lock in period, as long as it supports the partial withdrawal, and then from the Fund Value built up from the base premium(s). Partial withdrawal will be allowed till the Fund Value reaches two times of the annual premium.T&C10 • The minimum value of each partial withdrawal is ` 2,000. • The partial withdrawals will not be allowed which would result in foreclosure of the Policy. Systematic Withdrawal Plan (SWP): Under Partial Withdrawal facility, you can choose to opt for Systematic Withdrawal Plan (SWP). This facility allows you to withdraw a pre-determined percentage of your fund value regularly. This can help you to meet speciﬁc needs such as child’s education or money for day-to-day expenses during retirement. • Systematic Withdrawal Plan is allowed only after the completion of lock-in period. • The payouts may be taken monthly, quarterly, half-yearly or yearly, on a speciﬁed date and are payable in advance. The ﬁrst payout is made on the withdrawal start date speciﬁed by you. • This facility can be opted at policy inception or anytime during the policy term. You may modify or opt-out of the facility by notifying us in writing. • All conditions applicable for partial withdrawals such as minimum and maximum withdrawal amount, age, etc. will be applicable for Systematic Withdrawal Plan as well. Both SWP and partial withdrawal can be availed simultaneously. • For example, if you choose 6% p.a. of the fund value to be withdrawn yearly, then an amount equal to 6% of the fund value would be paid on the chosen date every year. Partial Withdrawal Beneﬁt You have an option to receive the Maturity Beneﬁt as a structured payout using Settlement Option. • With this facility, you can opt to get payments on a yearly, half yearly, quarterly or monthly (through ECS) basis, over a period of one to ﬁve years, post maturity. • The ﬁrst payout of the settlement option will be made on the date of maturity. • At any time during the settlement period, you/ Claimant have the option to withdraw the entire Fund Value. • During the settlement period, the investment risk in the investment portfolio is borne by you/ Claimant. • Only the Fund Management Charge and mortality charge, if any, would be levied during the settlement period. • No ‘Return of Mortality Charges & Policy Administration Charges’ or Wealth Boosters will be added during this period. • You may avail facility of switches as per the terms and conditions of the policy. Partial withdrawals and Change in Portfolio Strategy (CIPS) are not allowed during the settlement period. • Rider cover shall not be available during the settlement period. • In the event of death of the Life Assured during the settlement period, Death Beneﬁt payable to the Claimant as lump sum will be: Death Beneﬁt during the settlement period = A or B whichever is highest Where, A = Fund Value B = 105% of total premiums paid On payment of Death Beneﬁt, the policy will terminate and all rights, beneﬁts and interests under the policy will be extinguished. • On payment of last instalment of the settlement option, the policy will terminate and all rights, beneﬁts and interests under the policy will be extinguished. Settlement Option If you choose the Fixed Portfolio strategy, you can switch units from one fund to another depending on your ﬁnancial priorities and investment outlook as many times as you want. This beneﬁt is available to you without any charge. The minimum switch amount is ` 2,000. Switches are not applicable for other portfolio strategies. Unlimited free switches between funds for Fixed Portfolio Strategy You have the option to switch amongst the available Portfolio Strategies. You can change your portfolio strategy up to four times in a policy year provided the monies are not in Discontinued Policy Fund. This facility is provided free of cost. Any unutilized Change in Portfolio Strategy (CIPS) cannot be carried forward to the next policy year. On moving to the Life Cycle based Portfolio Strategy 2 or Trigger Portfolio Strategy 2, your existing funds as well as all future premiums will be allocated between Multi Cap Growth Fund and Income Fund as per the Strategy details mentioned earlier. On moving to the Target Asset Allocation Strategy or Fixed Portfolio Strategy, you must specify the proportions among the choice of funds available in which your existing funds and future premium should be saved. Change in Portfolio Strategy (CIPS) This feature is applicable only if you have opted for the Fixed Portfolio Strategy and provided monies are not in Discontinued Policy Fund. If you have selected Fixed Portfolio Strategy, at policy inception you specify the funds and the proportion in which the premiums are to be saved in the funds. At the time of payment of subsequent premiums, the split may be changed without any charge. This will not count as a switch. Once the policyholder opts for this feature, the new split will apply for all future premiums as well. Premium Redirection You can save any surplus money as Top-up premium, over and above the base premium(s), into the policy. . Wherever Top-up is availed, Fund Value shall include Top-up Fund Value, if any. The following conditions apply on Top-ups: • The minimum Top-up premium is ` 2,000. • Your Sum Assured will increase by Top-up Sum Assured when you avail of a Top-up. • The minimum and maximum Sum Assured multiples for Top-up premiums will be 1.25 times of Top-up premium However, instead of age at entry, age at the time of paying the Top-up premium will be considered to determine the sum assured multiple. • Top-up premiums once paid cannot be withdrawn from the fund for a period of 5 years from the date of payment of the 'Top-up' premium, except in case of complete surrender of the policy. • The maximum number of top-ups allowed during the policy term is 99. Top-up You can choose to increase or decrease your Sum Assured during the policy term provided all due premiums till date have been paid and monies are not in Discontinued Policy fund. • Increase or decrease in Sum Assured will not change the premium payable under the policy. • An increase in Sum Assured is allowed, subject to underwriting, before the policy anniversary on which the life assured is aged 60 years completed birthday. • Decrease in Sum Assured is allowed up to the minimum allowed under the policy. • Such increases or decreases would be subject to maximum Sum Assured multiple limits. Any medical cost for this purpose would be borne by you and will be levied by redemption of units. Increase / Decrease in Sum Assured • You can choose to increase your policy term by notifying the Company. • Increase in terms is allowed subject to the Policy terms allowed under the policy. • An increase in policy term is allowed, subject to underwriting. • Decreasing the policy term is not allowed. Increase in Policy Term • Provided all due premiums have been paid, you can choose to increase or decrease the Premium Payment TermSuch increase will have to be notiﬁed to the Company in advance no later than 2 months before the end of the existing premium payment term. • This can be exercised multiple times during the Premium Payment Term, however the revised premium payment term cannot exceed Policy Term. • Decrease in Premium Payment Term is not allowed. Increase / Decrease in Premium Payment Term Choice of four portfolio strategies This strategy enables you to choose an asset allocation that is best suited to your risk appetite and maintains it throughout the policy term. You can allocate your premiums between any two funds available with this policy, in the proportion of your choice. Your portfolio will be rebalanced every quarter to ensure that this asset allocation is maintained. The re-balancing of units shall be done on the last day of each Policy quarter. If the last day of the quarter is a non-working day, then the next working day’s NAV will be applicable. You can avail this option at inception or at any time later during the Policy Term. 1 Target Asset Allocation Strategy For any customer, maintaining a pre-deﬁned asset allocation is a dynamic process and is a function of constantly changing markets. The Trigger Portfolio Strategy 2 enables you to take advantage of substantial equity market swings and save on the principle of “buy low, sell high”. Under this strategy, your savings will initially be distributed between two funds Multi Cap Growth Fund, an equity oriented fund, and Income Fund, a debt oriented fund in a 75%:25% proportion. The fund allocation may subsequently get altered due to market movements. We will re-balance funds in the portfolio based on a pre-deﬁned trigger event. Working of the strategy: • The trigger event is deﬁned as a 10% upward or downward movement in NAV of Multi Cap Growth Fund, since the previous rebalancing. For determining the ﬁrst trigger event, the movement of 10% in NAV of Multi Cap Growth Fund will be measured vis-à-vis the NAV at the inception of your strategy. • On the occurrence of the trigger event, any fund value in Multi Cap Growth Fund which is in excess of three times the Income Fund, fund value is considered as gains and is transferred to the liquid fund - Money Market Fund by cancellation of appropriate units from the Multi Cap Growth Fund. This ensures that gains are capitalized, while maintaining the asset allocation between Multi Cap Growth Fund and Income Fund at 75%:25%. • In case there are no gains to be capitalized, funds in Multi Cap Growth Fund, Income Fund and Money Market Fund are redistributed in Multi Cap Growth Fund and Income Fund in 75:25 proportion. 2 Trigger Portfolio Strategy 2 This strategy enables you to manage your savings actively. Under this strategy, you can choose to save your monies in any of the following fund options in proportions of your choice. You can switch monies amongst these funds using the switch option. The details of the funds are given in the table below: Fund Name and Its Objective Asset Allocation % (Min) % (Max) Potential Risk- Reward Proﬁle High Focus 50 Fund: To provide long-term capital appreciation from equity portfolio invested predominantly in top 50 stocks. SFIN: ULIF 142 04/02/19 FocusFifty 105 Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Money Market and Cash 90% 0% 0% 100% 10% 10% High Value Enhancer Fund: To achieve long-term capital appreciation through investments primarily in equity and equity-related instruments in sectors that are emerging or witnessing a inﬂection in growth trajectory. SFIN: ULIF 139 24/11/17 VEF 105 Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Money Market and Cash 85% 0% 0% 100% 15% 15% High Opportunities Fund: To generate superior long-term returns from a diversiﬁed portfolio of equity and equity related instruments of companies operating in four important types of industries viz., Resources, Investment-related, Consumption-related and Human Capital leveraged industries. SFIN: ULIF 086 24/11/09 LOpport 105 Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Money Market and Cash 80% 0% 0% 100% 20% 20% 3 Fixed Portfolio Strategy High India Growth Fund: To generate superior long-term capital appreciation by investing at least 80% in a diversiﬁed portfolio of equity and equity related securities of companies whose growth is propelled by India’s rising power in domestic consumption and services sectors such as Automobiles, Retail, Information Technology, Services and Energy. SFIN: ULIF 141 04/02/19 IndiaGrwth 105 Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Money Market and Cash 80% 0% 0% 100% 20% 20% High Multi Cap Growth Fund: To generate superior long-term returns from a diversiﬁed portfolio of equity and equity related instruments of large, mid and small cap companies. SFIN: ULIF 085 24/11/09 LMCapGro 105 Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Money Market and Cash 80% 0% 0% 100% 20% 20% High Bluechip Fund: To provide long-term capital appreciation from equity portfolio predominantly invested in large cap stocks. SFIN: ULIF 087 24/11/09 LBluChip 105 Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Money Market and Cash 80% 0% 0% 100% 20% 20% Fund Name and Its Objective Asset Allocation % (Min) % (Max) Potential Risk- Reward Proﬁle High Maximise India Fund: To offer long term wealth maximization by managing a diversiﬁed equity portfolio, predominantly comprising of companies in NIFTY 50 & NIFTY Junior indices. SFIN: ULIF 136 11/20/14 MIF 105 Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Money Market and Cash 80% 0% 0% 100% 20% 20% High Maximiser V: To achieve long-term capital appreciation through investments primarily in equity and equity- related instruments of large and mid cap stocks. SFIN: ULIF 114 15/03/11 LMaximis5 105 Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Money Market and Cash 75% 0% 0% 100% 25% 25% Moderate Multi Cap Balanced Fund: To achieve a balance between capital appreciation and stable returns by investing in a mix of equity and equity related instruments of large, mid and small cap companies and debt and debt related instruments. SFIN: ULIF 088 24/11/09 LMCapBal 105 Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Money Market and Cash 0% 20% 0% 60% 70% 50% Moderate Active Asset Allocation Balanced Fund: To provide capital appreciation by investing in a suitable mix of cash, debt and equities. The investment strategy will involve a ﬂexible policy for allocating assets among equities, bonds and cash. SFIN: ULIF 138 15/02/17 AAABF 105 Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Money Market and Cash 30% 30% 0% 70% 70% 40% Secure Opportunities Fund: To provide accumulation of income through investment in various ﬁxed income securities. The fund seeks to provide capital appreciation while maintaining a suitable balance between return, safety and liquidity. SFIN: ULIF 140 24/11/17 SOF 105 Low Debt Money Market and Cash 60% 0% 100% 40% Fund Name and Its Objective Asset Allocation % (Min) % (Max) Potential Risk- Reward Proﬁle Money Market Fund: To provide suitable returns through low risk investments in debt and money market instruments while attempting to protect the capital deployed in the fund. SFIN: ULIF 090 24/11/09 LMoneyMkt 105 Low Debt Money Market and Cash 0% 50% 50% 100% Income Fund: To provide accumulation of income through investment in various ﬁxed income securities. The fund seeks to provide capital appreciation while maintaining a suitable balance between return, safety and liquidity. SFIN: ULIF 089 24/11/09 LIncome 105 Low Debt Money Market and Cash 40% 0% 100% 60% Balanced Advantage Fund: To generate superior long-term returns from a diversiﬁed portfolio of equity and debt securities. The equity allocation is to be changed dynamically based on market conditions and relative attractiveness versus other asset classes. SFIN: ULIF 144 03/06/21 BalanceAdv 105 High Equity and Equity Related Securities Money Market and Cash Debt Instruments 65% 10% 90% 35% 0% 35% Sustainable Equity Fund: To focus on investing in select companies from the investment universe, which conduct business in socially and environmentally responsible manner while maintaining governance standards. SFIN: ULIF 145 03/06/21 SustainEqu 105 High Equity and Equity Related Securities Money Market and Cash Debt Instruments 85% 0% 100% 15% 0% 15% Fund Name and Its Objective Asset Allocation % (Min) % (Max) Potential Risk- Reward Proﬁle Mid Cap Hybrid Growth Fund: To generate superior risk-adjusted returns by investing in a combination of mid cap stocks (forming part of the Midcap Index) and highly rated bond instruments. SFIN: ULIF 147 050123 MCHybrdGrt 105 High Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Instruments Money Market and Cash 65% 80% 20% 35% 0% 15% Constant Maturity Fund: To provide accumulation of income through investments in debt instruments, predominantly in bonds issued by central, state governments and corporate bonds such that average maturity of the portfolio is 10 years. SFIN: ULIF 148 050123 ConstntMat 105 Moderate Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Instruments Money Market and Cash 0% 0% 75% 100% 0% 25% Mid Cap Index Fund: To generate superior long term returns by investing in companies speciﬁcally forming a part of Nifty midcap 150 index. SFIN: ULIF 149 050723 McIndxFund 105 High Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Instruments Money Market and Cash 90% 100% 0% 10% 0% 10% Mid Cap 150 Momentum 50 Index Fund: To generate superior long term returns by investing in the mid-cap companies forming a part of NIFTY MidCap 150 Momentum 50 index, subject to regulatory limits* *Regulations may restrict us from investing in all the stocks in line with their weights in the index from time to time. SFIN:ULIF 151 180124 McMomentum 105 High Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Instruments Money Market and Cash 90% 100% 0% 10% 0% 10% Mid Cap Fund: To generate superior long term returns by investing in mid cap stocks, predominantly those forming part of the Midcap Index. SFIN: ULIF 146 28/06/22 MidCapFund 105 High Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Instruments Money Market and Cash 85% 100% 0% 15% 0% 15% Fund Name and Its Objective Asset Allocation % (Min) % (Max) Potential Risk- Reward Proﬁle MidSmall Cap 400 Index Fund: To generate superior long term returns by investing in companies speciﬁcally forming a part of NIFTY MidSmall Cap 400 Index, subject to regulatory limits* *Regulations may restrict us from investing in all the stocks in line with their weights in the index from time to time. SFIN:ULIF 153 150424 MidSmal400 105 High Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Instruments, Money market and cash 90% 100% 0% 10% Multicap 50 25 25 Index Fund :To generate superior long term returns by investing in companies speciﬁcally forming a part of Nifty 500 Multicap 50:25:25 Index, subject to regulatory limits*. *Regulations may restrict us from investing in all stocks , in line with their weights in the index from time to time. SFIN:ULIF 152 220224 MultiCapIF 105 High Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Instruments Money Market and Cash 90% 100% 0% 10% 0% 10% MidSmallCap 400 Momentum Quality 100 Index Fund: To generate superior long-term returns by investing in the mid-cap and small-cap companies forming a part of Nifty MidSmallCap 400 Momentum Quality 100 Index Fund, subject to regulatory limits*. *Regulations may restrict us from investing in all stocks , in line with their weights in the index from time to time. SFIN:ULIF 156 251024 MscMomQual 105 High Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Instruments Money Market and Cash 90% 100% 0% 10% 0% 10% Smallcap 250 Momentum Quality 100 Index Fund: To generate superior long-term returns by investing in the small-cap companies forming a part of the Nifty Smallcap 250 Momentum Quality 100 Index, subject to regulatory limits*. *Regulations may restrict us from investing in all the stocks in line with their weights in the index from time to time. SFIN:ULIF 157 301224 SmcMomQual 105 High Equity and Equity Related Securities Debt Instruments Money Market and Cash 90% 100% 0% 10% 0% 10% Within the Fixed Portfolio Strategy you also have the option to select Automatic Transfer Strategy (ATS). If this is chosen you can save all or part of your savings in Secure Opportunities Fund, Money Market Fund, Income Fund and/or Constant Maturity Fund and transfer a ﬁxed amount in regular instalments into one or more of the following funds: Bluechip Fund, Maximiser V, Multi Cap Growth Fund, Maximise India Fund, Value Enhancer Fund, Opportunities Fund, Focus 50 Fund or India Growth Fund, Balanced Advantage Fund, Sustainable Equity Fund, Mid Cap Fund, Mid Cap Hybrid Growth Fund, Mid Cap Index Fund, Mid Cap 150 Momentum 50 Index Fund Multicap 50 25 25 Index Fund, MidSmall Cap 400 Index Fund, MidSmallCap 400 Momentum Quality 100 Index Fund or SmallCap 250 Momentum Quality 100 Index Fund. Similarly, you can choose to save all or part of your savings in one or more of the following funds: Bluechip Fund, Maximiser V, Multi Cap Growth Fund, Maximise India Fund, Value Enhancer Fund, Opportunities Fund, Focus 50 Fund, India Growth Fund, Balanced Advantage Fund, Sustainable Equity Fund, Mid Cap Fund, Mid Cap Hybrid Growth Fund, Mid Cap Index Fund, Mid Cap 150 Momentum 50 Index Fund, Multicap 50 25 25 Index Fund MidSmall Cap 400 Index Fund, MidSmallCap 400 Momentum Quality 100 Index Fund or SmallCap 250 Momentum Quality 100 Index Fund and transfer a ﬁxed amount in regular instalments into one or more of Secure Opportunities Fund, Money Market Fund Income Fund and Constant Maturity Fund. There would be no additional charges for Automatic Transfer Strategy (ATS). The following conditions apply to Automatic Transfer Strategy (ATS). This automatic transfer will be done in either weekly, fortnightly or monthly equal instalments, as per the chosen frequency. • Automatic Transfer Strategy (ATS) would be executed by redeeming the required number of units from fund chosen at the applicable unit value and allocating new units in the destination fund at the applicable unit value. • At inception, you can opt for a speciﬁc transfer and the transfer will take place as per the chosen frequency. If the date is not mentioned, the funds will be switched on the ﬁrst day of next month from the receipt of the request and will continue based on instalment frequency chosen. If the transfer date is a non-valuation date, then the next working day’s NAV would be applicable. • Once selected, Automatic Transfer Strategy (ATS) will be renewed and would be regularly processed for the entire term of the policy or until the Company is notiﬁed, through a written communication, to discontinue the same. Asset allocation details at Policy inception and during the Policy term Age of Life Assured (years) Multi Cap Growth Fund 80% 75% 65% 55% 45% 35% Up to 25 26 – 35 36 – 45 46 – 55 56 – 65 66 + 20% 25% 35% 45% 55% 65% Income Fund At Policy inception, your savings are distributed between two funds, Multi Cap Growth Fund and Income Fund, based on your age. As you move from one age band to another, your funds are re-distributed based on your age. The age wise portfolio distribution is shown in the table. Age based portfolio management Your ﬁnancial needs are not static and keep changing with your life stage. It is, therefore, necessary that your policy adapts to your changing needs. This need is fulﬁlled by the Lifecycle based Portfolio Strategy 2. Key features of this strategy 4 Lifecycle based Portfolio Strategy 2 On a quarterly basis, units shall be rebalanced as necessary to achieve the above proportions of the Fund Value in the Multi Cap Growth Fund and Income Fund. The re-balancing of units shall be done on the last day of each Policy quarter. The above proportions shall apply until the last ten quarters of the Policy are remaining. Quarterly rebalancing Age at entry: 35 years Premium payment option: Limited Pay Premium payment mode: Annual Amount of instalment premium: ` 1,00,000 Sum Assured: ` 10,00,000 Premium payment term: 5 years Policy term: 15 years Total premium paid: ` 5,00,000 Age at entry: 45 years Premium payment option: Limited Pay Premium payment mode: Annual Amount of instalment premium: ` 1,00,000 Sum Assured: ` 10,00,000 Premium payment term: 10 years Policy term: Whole Life (54 years) Total premium paid: ` 10,00,000 Assumed investment returns 8% p.a. ` 10,86,316 Fund Value at Maturity ` 6,72,662 4% p.a. Fund Value at 4% p.a. assumed investment returns 65 85 99 20 40 54 25,52,120 96,71,153 2,43,49,820 13,60,808 22,85,837 32,73,717 Fund Value at 8% p.a. assumed investment returns Completed Policy Year Age As your Policy nears its maturity date, you need to ensure that short-term market volatility does not affect your accumulated savings. In order to achieve this, your savings in Multi Cap Growth Fund will be systematically transferred to Income Fund in ten instalments in the last ten quarters of your Policy. The Policyholder can only have his funds in one of the Portfolio Strategies. Safety as you approach maturity Illustration Secure your family under Married Woman’s Property Act (MWPA) Through this feature, you have an option to secure the corpus for the beneﬁt of your wife and children as the funds under the policy cannot be attached by creditors and claimants*. Under section 6 of the Married Woman’s Property Act, 1874, a married man can take an insurance policy on his own life, and express it to be for the beneﬁt of his wife and children. When such intent is expressed on the face of the policy, it shall be deemed to be a trust for the beneﬁt of the named beneﬁciaries and it shall not be subject to the control of the husband, or his creditors, or form part of his estate. *Unless taken otherwise with the intent to defraud creditors. In case of any third party claim in the Courts of India with regards the insurance proceeds, the amount shall be subject to the judiciary directions. Please seek professional legal advice for the applicability of this provision. Premium Allocation Charge Charges under the policy Fund Management Charge (FMC) The following fund management charges will be applicable and will be adjusted from the NAV on a daily basis. This charge will be a percentage of the Fund Value. Nil The above illustrations are for a healthy male life with 100% of his investments in Maximiser V. The above are illustrative maturity values, net of all charges, Goods & Services Tax and cesses, if any. Since your policy offers variable returns, the given illustration shows different rates of assumed future investment returns. The returns shown in the beneﬁt illustration are not guaranteed and they are not the upper or lower limits of what you might get back, as the value of your policy depends on a number of factors including future investment performance. Policy Administration Charge Policy Administration Charge will be levied every month by redemption of units Policy administration charge : 0.5% p.m. (6.0%) of Annual Premium limited to ` 500 p.m. (` 6000 p.a.) Policy administration charge will be charged throughout the policy term. If the monies are in the Discontinued Policy Fund, a Fund Management Charge of 0.50% p.a. will apply. 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 0.75% Focus 50 Fund India Growth Fund Maximiser V Opportunities Fund Multi Cap Growth Fund Value Enhancer Fund Bluechip Fund Multi Cap Balanced Fund Maximise India Fund Active Asset Allocation Balanced Fund Secure Opportunities Fund Income Fund Money Market Fund FMC p.a. Fund 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% 1.35% Balanced Advantage Fund Sustainable Equity Fund Mid Cap Fund Mid Cap Hybrid Growth Fund Constant Maturity Fund Mid Cap Index Fund Mid Cap 150 Momentum 50 Index Fund Multicap 50 25 25 Index Fund MidSmall Cap 400 Index Fund MidSmallCap 400 Momentum Quality 100 Index Fund SmallCap 250 Momentum Quality 100 Index Fund FMC p.a. Fund Mortality Charges Mortality charges will be levied at the beginning every month by redemption of units based on the Sum at Risk. Sum at Risk = Highest of, • Sum Assured, including Top-up Sum Assured, if any • Fund Value • Minimum Death Beneﬁt Less • Fund Value Discontinuance Charges Discontinuance Charges are described below. Where AP is Annual Premium and FV is the total Fund Value on the Date of Discontinuance. No Discontinuance Charge is applicable for Top-up premiums. Where the policy is discontinued in the policy year Annual premium ≤ ` 50,000 Lower of 20% of (AP or FV), subject to a maximum of ` 3,000 Lower of 15% of (AP or FV), subject to a maximum of ` 2,000 Lower of 10% of (AP or FV), subject to a maximum of ` 1,500 Lower of 5% of (AP or FV), subject to a maximum of ` 1,000 NIL 1 2 3 4 5 and onwards Lower of 6% (AP or FV), subject to a maximum of ` 6,000 Lower of 4% of (AP or FV), subject to a maximum of ` 5,000 Lower of 3% of (AP or FV), subject to a maximum of ` 4,000 Lower of 2% of (AP or FV), subject to a maximum of ` 2,000 NIL Annual premium > ` 50,000 Discontinuance Charge Indicative annual charges per thousand life cover for a healthy male and female life are as shown below: Male (`) Female (`) 1.06 1.02 1.81 1.55 4.95 3.99 11.54 9.95 Age (yrs) 60 30 40 50 i. This section is applicable only for Limited Pay policy. a. Premium discontinuance during Lock-in period Upon expiry of the grace period, in case of discontinuance of policy due to non-payment of premiums during the Lock-in Period, the Fund Value , shall be credited to the Discontinued Policy Fund after deduction of applicable discontinuance charges and the risk cover and rider cover, if any, shall cease. It will continue to remain in the Discontinued Policy Fund till the policy is revived by paying due premiums. We will communicate the status of the policy to you within three months of ﬁrst unpaid premium providing you the option to revive the policy within the revival period. i). If You opt to revive but do not revive the policy during the revival period, the Policy shall continue without any risk cover and rider cover (if any), the proceeds of the Discontinued Policy Fund applicable to your Policy shall be payable to You at the end of the revival period or lock in period, whichever is later, the policy shall terminate and all rights, beneﬁts and interests will stand extinguished. In respect of revival period ending after lock-in period, the policy will remain in Discontinued Policy Fund till the end of revival period. The Fund management charges of Discontinued Policy Fund will be applicable during this period and no other charges will be applied. ii). If you do not exercise the option to revive the policy, the Policy shall continue without any risk cover and rider cover, if any, and the Policy Fund shall remain invested in the Discontinued Policy Fund. At the end of Lock-In Period, the proceeds of the Discontinied Policy Fund shall become payable to You and thereafter the policy shall terminate and all rights, beneﬁts and interests will stand extinguished. i. Premium discontinuance for other than single premium policies: 2 Premium Discontinuance Non Forfeiture Beneﬁts During the Lock-in period, on receipt of intimation by Us that you wish to surrender the policy, the Fund Value, after deduction of applicable Discontinuance Charge, shall be credited to the Discontinued Policy Fund and risk cover and rider cover, if any, shall ceaseThe fund management charges of the discontinued policy fund will be applicable during this period and no other charges will be applied. You or the Claimant, as the case may be, will be entitled to receive the Discontinued Policy Fund Value, on the earlier of death or the expiry of the lock-in period. Currently the lock-in period is ﬁve years from policy inception. After the completion of Lock-in Period ,on the receipt of intimation by us that you wish to surrender the Policy, you will receive the Surrender Value (equal to Fund Value) as on the date of surrender. No surrender penalty will be levied and policy surrender will extinguish all rights, beneﬁts and interests under the policy. 1 Surrender iii). However, you have an option to surrender the policy anytime and proceeds of the Discontinued Policy Fund shall become payable to You at the end of lock-in period or date of surrender whichever is later. b. Premium discontinuance after the Lock-in period Upon expiry of the grace period, in case of discontinuance of policy due to non-payment of premium after lock in period. the policy will be converted into a reduced paid-up policy with paid-up sum assured. The policy shall continue to be in reduced paid-up status without rider cover, if any. Reduced paid-up Sum Assured = Original Sum Assured X (total number of months for which premiums have already been paid / [premium payment term X 12]) On death of the Life Assured during this period, the Death Beneﬁt as mentioned in Part C, Clause 1 (Death Beneﬁt clause), shall be payable. However, the Sum Assured shall be revised to Reduced paid-up Sum Assured as mentioned above. All charges as per terms and conditions of the policy shall be deducted during the revival period. However, the mortality charges shall be deducted based on the reduced paid-up sum assured only, unless you choose option 3 as detailed below, in which case mortality charges shall be deducted as per the Original Sum Assured. We will communicate the status of the policy to you within three months of ﬁrst unpaid premium providing you the following options to exercise: Option 1: Revive the policy within the revival period of three years Option 2: Complete withdrawal of the policy Option 3: Continue the policy till the revival period with Original Sum Assured. If you choose Option 1, but do not revive the policy during the Revival Period or before the Date of Maturity, whichever is earlier ,the Fund Value as applicable at the end of the revival period or the maturity beneﬁt as payable on maturity(in case the date of maturity falls within the revival period) shall become payable to You, and the policy shall terminate and all rights, beneﬁts and interests will stand extinguished. If you choose Option 2, the policy will be surrendered and the Surrender value will be payable to you and the policy shall terminate and all rights, beneﬁts and interests will stand extinguished. If you choose Option 3, the policy will continue with Original Sum Assured till the end of the Revival Period or Date of Maturity, whichever is earlier, the Fund Value (as applicable at the end of the revival period) or the maturity beneﬁt (as payable on maturity will be paid to you and the policy shall terminate and all rights, beneﬁts and interests will stand extinguished. . For a Whole Life policy, the option to continue with Original Sum Assured is not available if premiums have been paid for less than 7 years. If you do not choose any of these options, the policy shall continue to be in reduced paid up status. At the end of the revival period or maturity, whichever is earlier, the Fund Value (as applicable at the end of the revival period) or the Maturity Beneﬁt (as payable on maturity) , shall be payable to you and the policy shall terminate and all rights, beneﬁts and interests will stand extinguished. You will have an option to surrender the policy anytime. On surrender, Surrender value shall be payable to you and the policy shall terminate and all rights, beneﬁts and interests will stand extinguished. Treatment of the policy while monies are in the Discontinued Policy Fund While monies are in the Discontinued Policy Fund: • Risk Cover Rider cover (if any) and Minimum Death Beneﬁt will not apply • A Fund Management Charge of 0.50% p.a. of the Discontinued Policy Fund will be made. No other charges will apply. • From the date monies enter the Discontinued Policy Fund till the date they leave the Discontinued Policy Fund, a minimum guaranteed interest rate declared by IRDAI from time to time will apply. The current minimum guaranteed interest rate applicable to the Discontinued Policy Fund is 4% p.a. The revival period is three years from the date of ﬁrst unpaid premium. Revival will be based on the prevailing Board approved underwriting guidelines. a. In case of revival of a discontinued policy during lock-in period, We shall at the time of revival: 1. Collect from You, all due and unpaid premiums without charging any interest or fee, 2. Levy policy administration charge and premium allocation charges as applicable during the discontinuance period. No other charges shall be levied, 3. Shall add back to the fund, the discontinuance charges deducted, if any, at the time of discontinuance of the policy When you revive the policy, the policy shall be revived restoring the risk cover, along with the investments made in the segregated funds as chosen by you, out of the discontinued fund, less the applicable charges as given above in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. b. In case of revival of a discontinued policy after lock-in period, We shall at the time of revival: 1 Collect from You, all due and unpaid premiums under base plan without charging any interest or fee. You will also have an option to revive the rider, if any. 2 No other charges shall be levied. When you revive the policy, the policy shall be revived restoring the original risk cover in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. c. For the purpose of revival the following conditions are applicable: 1 You, at your own expense, shall furnish satisfactory evidence of health of the Life Assured, as required by us; 2 Revival of the policy may be on terms different from those applicable to the policy before the premiums were discontinued; d. On payment of overdue premiums before the end of revival period, the policy will be revived. On revival, the policy will continue with beneﬁts and charges, as per the terms and conditions of the policy. You shall have an option to revive the policy with or without rider, if any. Monies will be saved in the segregated fund(s) chosen by You at the NAV as on the date of such revival. Revival will take effect only on it being speciﬁcally communicated by us to you. 3 Policy revival Terms and Conditions commits suicide for any reason whatsoever within 12 months from the date of commencement of the policy or from the date of policy revival, only the Fund Value, as available on the date of intimation of death, or Date of Foreclosure or Date of Maturity whichever is earlier, would be payable to the Claimant.Any charges other than Fund Management Charges and guarantee charges, if any, recovered subsequent to the date of death shall be added back to the fund value as available on the date of intimation of death or Date of Foreclosure or Date of Maturity whichever is earlier. If the Life Assured, whether sane or insane, commits suicide within 12 months from the effective date of any top-up, the corresponding top-up sum assured shall not be considered in the calculation of the death beneﬁt. 8 Foreclosure of the policy: After completion of lock-in period and on payment of all due premiums during lock-in period, if the Fund Value , becomes nil, then the policy will terminate and no beneﬁts will be payable.. On termination or foreclosure of the policy all rights, beneﬁts and interest under the policy shall be extinguished. A policy cannot be foreclosed before completion of Lock-in period. 9 Unit Pricing: The NAV for different Segregated Funds shall be declared on all business days (as deﬁned in Investment Regulations). The NAV of each Segregated Fund shall be computed as set out below or by any other method as may be prescribed by regulation: [Market Value of investment held by the fund plus Value of Current Assets less Value of Current Liabilities and provisions] Divided by, Number of units existing under the Fund at valuation date, before any new units are created or redeemed 10 Assets are valued daily on a mark to market basis. 11 Policyholder through a secured login can access the value of policy wise units held by him in the format as per Form D02 prescribed under IRDAI Investment Regulations, 2016. 1 Freelook period: On receipt of the Policy Document, whether received electronically or otherwise, You have an option to review the policy terms and conditions. If You are not satisﬁed or have any disagreement with the terms and conditions of the Policy or otherwise and have not made any claim, the Policy Document needs to be returned to the Company with reasons for cancellation within 30 days from the date of receipt of the Policy Document. On cancellation of the policy during the free look period, you shall be entitled to an amount which shall be equal to Fund Value at the date of cancellation plus non-allocated premium plus charges levied by cancellation of units, less proportionate risk premium for the period of cover, stamp duty expenses under the policy and expenses borne by us on medical examination, if any The policy will terminate on payment of this amount and all rights, beneﬁts and interests under this policy will stand extinguished. 2 Tax beneﬁts may be available as per the prevailing Income Tax laws. Goods and Services Tax and cesses, if any will be charged extra by redemption of units, as per applicable rates. Tax laws are subject to amendments from time to time. 3 Increase or decrease in premium is not allowed. 4 Grace Period: The grace period for payment of premium is 15 days for monthly mode of premium payment and 30 days for other modes of premium payment commencing form the premium due date. The life cover continues during grace period. In case of Death of Life Assured during the grace period, We will pay the applicable Death Beneﬁt. 5 Date of Discontinuance of the policy is the date on which the Company receives intimation from the Policyholder about discontinuance of the policy or surrender of the policy, or on the expiry of the grace period, whichever is earlier. The policy remains in force till the date of discontinuance of the policy. 6 The Company will not provide loans under this policy. 7 Suicide Clause: If the Life Assured, whether sane or insane, 12 If premiums for the second year onwards are received by outstation cheques, the NAV of the clearance date or due date, whichever is later, will be allocated. Transaction requests (including renewal premiums by way of local cheques, demand draft, switches, etc.) received before the cut-off time will be allocated the same day's NAV and those received after the cut-off time will be allocated the next day's NAV. The cut-off time will be as per IRDAI guidelines from time to time, which is currently 3:00 p.m. 13 All renewal premiums received in advance will be allocated units at the NAV prevailing on the date on which such premiums become due. However, the status of the premium received in advance shall be communicated to the Policyholder. 14 If the Policyholder and the Life Assured are different, thenin the event of death of the Policyholder and upon subsequent intimation of the death with the Company: a. If the Life Assured is a minor: the policy shall vest on the guardian of the minor life assured till he/she attains the age of majority. Upon attaining the age of majority the ownership of the policy shall be transferred to the life assured. b. If the Life Assured is major: the policy shall vest on the Life Assured. Thereafter, the Life Assured shall become the Policyholder and will be entitled to all beneﬁts and subject to all liabilities as per the terms and conditions of the policy. 15 Nomination: Nomination shall be as per Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. For more details on this section, please refer to our website. 16 Assignment: Assignment shall be as per Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. For more details on this section, please refer to our website. 17 Section 41: In accordance with Section 41 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time no person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement to any person to take or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the insurer. Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this section shall be punishable with ﬁne which may extend to ten lakh rupees. 18 Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938: 1) No policy of life insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after the expiry of three years from the date of the policy, i.e., from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later. 2) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground of fraud: Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision is based. 3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance policy on the ground of fraud if the insured can prove that the mis-statement of or suppression of a material fact was true to the best of his knowledge and belief or that there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of or suppression of a material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer: Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving lies upon the beneﬁciaries, in case the policyholder is not alive. 4) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground that any statement of or suppression of a fact material to the expectancy of the life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or other document on the basis of which the policy was issued or revived or rider issued: Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based: Provided further that in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of misstatement or suppression of a material fact, and not on the ground of fraud, the premiums collected on the policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured within a period of ninety days from the date of such repudiation. 5) Nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer from calling for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so, and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the Life Insured was incorrectly stated in the proposal. 19 Force Majeure: a. The Company shall value the Funds (SFIN) on each day for which the ﬁnancial markets are open. However, the Company may value the SFIN less frequently in extreme circumstances external to the Company i.e. in force majeure events, where the value of the assets is too uncertain. In such circumstances, the Company may defer the valuation of assets for up to 30 days until the Company is certain that the valuation of SFIN can be resumed. b. The Company shall inform IRDAI of such deferment in the valuation of assets. During the continuance of the force majeure events, all request for servicing the policy including policy related payment shall be kept in abeyance. c. The Company shall continue to invest as per the fund mandates submitted with IRDAI. However, the Company shall reserve its right to change the exposure of all or any part of the Fund to Money Market Instruments [[as deﬁned under clause 1(8) of the Schedule III of IRDAI (Actuarial, Finance and Investment Functions of Insurers) Regulations, 2024 in circumstances mentioned under points (a and b) above. The exposure to of the fund as per the fund mandates submitted with IRDAI shall be reinstated within reasonable timelines once the force majeure situation ends. d. Few examples of circumstances as mentioned [in point 3 (a & b) above] are: i. when one or more stock exchanges which provide a basis for valuation of the assets of the fund are closed otherwise than for ordinary holidays. ii. when, as a result of political, economic, monetary or any circumstances which are not in the control of the Company, the disposal of the assets of the fund would be detrimental to the interests of the continuing Policyholders. iii. in the event of natural calamities, strikes, war, civil unrest, riots and bandhs. iv. in the event of any force majeure or disaster that affects the normal functioning of the Company. e. In such an event, an intimation of such force majeure event shall be uploaded on the Company's website for information. 20 If the policy has been taken on the life of a minor, on attaining the age of majority i.e. 18 years, the policy will vest on him/her. Thereafter, the Life Assured shall become the policyholder who will then be entitled to all the beneﬁts and subject to all liabilities as per the terms and conditions of the policy. The Life Assured cum Policyholder can register due nomination as per section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. 21 At the time of issuing the policy, it will be ensured that the expected Unit Fund value at Maturity is at least 90% of total premium paid at 4% gross yield on the Unit Fund after allowing for all the deductions under the policy, including underwriting loadings, if any. The policy will not be issued if the given condition is not met. 22. The policy is available for sale through online mode. 23. Policy Servicing and Grievance Handling Mechanism: For any clariﬁcation or assistance, You may contact Our advisor or call Our customer service representative (between 10.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m, Monday to Saturday; excluding national holidays) on the numbers mentioned on the reverse of the Policy folder or on Our website: www.iciciprulife.com. For updated contact details, We request You to regularly check Our website. If You do not receive any resolution from Us or if You are not satisﬁed with Our resolution, You may get in touch with Our designated grievance redressal ofﬁcer (GRO) at gro@iciciprulife.com or 1800-2660. Address: ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, Unit 901A & 901B, 9th Floor, Prism Towers, Mindspace Link Road, Goregaon West, Mumbai – 400063 For more details, please refer to the “Grievance Redressal” section on www.iciciprulife.com. If You do not receive any resolution or if You are not satisﬁed with the resolution provided by the GRO, You may escalate the matter to Our internal grievance redressal committee at the address mentioned below: ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, Unit 901A & 901B, 9th Floor, Prism Towers, Mindspace Link Road, Goregaon West, Mumbai – 400063 If you are not satisﬁed with the response or do not receive a response from us within 15 days, you may approach Policyholders’ Protection and Grievance Redressal Department, the Grievance Cell of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) on the following contact details: IRDAI Grievance Call Centre (BIMA BHAROSA SHIKAYAT NIVARAN KENDRA) 155255 (or) 1800 4254 732 Email ID:complaints@irdai.gov.in Address for communication for complaints by fax/paper: Policyholders’ Protection and Grievance Redressal Department – Grievance Redressal Cell Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India Survey No. 115/1, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad, Telangana State – 500032. You can also register your complaint online at bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in. This is subject to change from time to time. Refer: https://www.iciciprulife.com/services/grievance-redress al.html for more details. The Company reserves the right to revise the following charges at any time during the term of the policy. Any revision will apply with prospective effect, as per permissible regulatory provisions set out by IRDAI and if so permitted by the then prevailing rules, after giving a written notice to the Policyholders. The following limits are applicable: • Fund Management Charge may be increased up to the maximum allowable as per applicable regulation. • Policy Administration Charge may be increased to a maximum of ` 500 per month, subject to the maximum permitted by IRDAI, currently a maximum of ` 6,000 p.a. applies. Any Policyholder who does not agree with an increase, shall be allowed to surrender the policy and no discontinuance charge will be applicable on surrender of such policies. The Premium Allocation Charges, Discontinuance Charges and Mortality Charges are guaranteed for the term of the policy. The policyholder should be aware that the investment in the units is subject to the following risks: • ICICI Pru Signature is a Unit-Linked Insurance Policy (ULIP) and is different from traditional products. Investments in ULIPs are subject to investment risks. • ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, ICICI Pru Signature, Opportunities Fund, Multi Cap Growth Fund, Bluechip Fund, Maximiser V, Value Enhancer Fund, Multi Cap Balanced Fund, Income Fund, Maximise India Fund, Active Asset Allocation Balanced Fund, Focus 50 Fund, India Growth Fund, Secure Opportunities Fund, Money Market Fund, Balanced Advantage Fund, Sustainable Equity Fund. Mid Cap Fund, Mid Cap Hybrid Growth Fund, Constant Maturity Fund, Mid Cap Index Fund Mid Cap 150 Momentum 50 Index Fund , Multicap 50 25 25 Index Fund, MidSmall Cap 400 Index Fund, MidSmallCap 400 Momentum Quality 100 Index Fund, and SmallCap 250 Momentum Quality 100 Index Fund are only names of the Company, policy and funds respectively and do not in any way indicate the quality of the policy, the funds or their future prospects or returns. • The investments in the funds are subject to market and other risks and there can be no assurance that the objectives of the funds will be achieved. • The premium paid in unit linked insurance policies are subject to investment risks associated with capital markets and debt markets and the NAVs of the units may go up or down based on the performance of fund and factors inﬂuencing the capital market and the insured is responsible for his/her decisions. • The past performance of other funds of the Company is not necessarily indicative of the future performance of these funds. • The funds do not offer a guaranteed or assured return. • For further details, refer to the Policy Document and detailed beneﬁt illustration. • Please know the associated risks and the applicable charges, from your insurance agent or intermediary or policy document issued by the insurance company. Revision of Charges Risks of investment in the Units of the Funds For more information: Customers calling from any where in India, please dial 1800 2660 Do not preﬁx this number with “+” or “91” or “00” Call Centre Timings: 10.00 am to 7.00 pm Monday to Saturday, except National Holidays. To know more, please visit www.iciciprulife.com ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited. Registered Ofﬁce: ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, ICICI PruLife Towers, 1089, Appasaheb Marathe Marg, Prabhadevi, Mumbai - 400 025. This product brochure is indicative of the terms, conditions, warranties, and exceptions contained in the insurance policy. For further details, please refer to the policy document. In the event of conﬂict, if any, between the contents of this brochure and those contained in the policy document, the terms and conditions contained in the policy document shall prevail. ICICI Pru Signature Form No.: UW2/UW3. UIN:105L177V07. Advt No.:L/II/1671/2024-25. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Regn. No. 105. CIN: L66010MH2000PLC127837. BEWARE OF SUSPICIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS/FRAUDULENT OFFERS IRDAI is not involved in activities like selling insurance policies, announcing bonus or investment of premiums. Public receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited is a joint venture between ICICI Bank Limited and Prudential Corporation Holdings Limited, a part of the Prudential group. ICICI Prudential began its operations in Fiscal 2001 after receiving approval from Insurance Regulatory Development Authority of India (IRDAI) in November 2000. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance has maintained its focus on offering a wide range of savings and protection products that meet the different life stage requirements of customers. About ICICI Prudential Life Insurance V07-v2-Jan25