You strive to provide comfort, happiness, and security to those who matter most— should your absence ever mean anything less? For those who have dedicated their lives to building wealth, nurturing aspirations, and securing the future of their families, protection is not just a policy— it’s a promise. In a world of uncertainties, A solution that offer both discretion and unwavering security, ensuring that every achievement remains safeguarded for generations to come - Your legacy deserves vigilance, not compromise. Our Kotak Signature Term Plan product is thoughtfully crafted for discerning clients who value precision and peace of mind. It empowers you to protect what you’ve built, so your loved ones can thrive—unburdened by life’s unpredictable challenges - Fortify Your Legacy, Ensure Their Tomorrow. This plan offers the option to enhance your coverage against Accidental Death Benefit. Further, you can also choose additional cover through Permanent Disability Benefit Rider and Critical Illness Plus Benefit Rider on payment of additional premiums, therefore ensuring a complete cover against the unfortunate eventualities. Kotak Signature Term Plan A Non-Participating Non-Linked Life Insurance Individual Pure Risk Product 1 High Insurance Cover at economical price Flexible Policy Terms & Premium Payment Terms to suite your protection needs Instant Payout on claim intimation of ` 2 Lakh Option to Exit early via T&C9 Special Exit Benefit Enhanced Protection with Accidental Death, Critical Illness plus and Permanent disability Riders Longer Life Coverage up to age 85 years Inbuilt Health & Wellness Benefits How Does the Plan Work? You can choose this plan under 3 simple steps - Special Discount for T&C3 Female Life Additional Discount for Salaried T&C4 Customers Key Features: 2 Step 1 Choose your Coverage Amount (Basic Sum Assured) & Policy Term & Premium Payment Term based on your requirement Step 2: Choose Premium Paying Mode as per your requirement. Step 3 (Optional): Choose Additional Cover through 3 Riders: • Kotak Permanent Disability Benefit Rider • Kotak Critical Illness Plus Benefit Rider • Kotak Accidental Death Benefit For Regular and Limited Premium For Single Premium Sum Assured on Death shall be highest of the following: • Basic Sum Assured OR @ • 11 times Annualized Premium • 105% of the Total Premiums paid* (plus underwriting extra premiums, if any) till the date of death of the Life Insured Sum Assured on Death shall be higher of the following: • Basic Sum Assured OR • 1.25 times the Single Premium paid T&C1: Death Benefit In case of an unfortunate event of death of the life insured during the policy term, provided the policy is in-force or during the Grace Period, the Claimant(s) shall receive the Sum Assured on Death as mentioned below: Sum Assured on Death shall be highest of the following: Sum Assured on Death: @Annualized Premium shall be the premium amount payable in a year chosen by the policy holder, excluding the taxes, rider premium, underwriting extra premiums and loadings for modal premium, if any. *Total Premiums Paid means total of all premiums paid under the base product, excluding any underwriting extra premiums, rider premiums and taxes but including any loadings for modal premium, if any. The Death Benefit as aforesaid shall be payable as a onetime Lumpsum Payout and the Policy stands terminated. 3 T&C2 Insta Payout on Claim Intimation ࠽ In case of death of the Life Insured after completion of three (3) consecutive Policy years, from the Date of Commencement of Risk or the date of Revival of the Policy; and subject to the Policy being in force, we shall endeavour to pay an amount of ₹ 2 Lakh in advance to the Claimant within two (2) working days from the claim registration date. Enhancing your Options Additional Features Benefits Convenient premium payment term and modes As per suitability, you can opt for premium payment term (PPT) i.e., regular or limited or single pay, from available options (please refer to “Eligibility” section below). You have the option to pay your premiums yearly, half yearly, quarterly or monthly and can also change the premium payment mode on policy anniversary Additional Protection (Optional) through Riders If you feel the insurance cover is not adequate or wish to customize the protection, you can do so by attaching below mentioned optional Riders to your Base Plan on payment of additional premium: Kotak Accidental Death Benefit Rider (UIN: 107B001V04): Lump sum benefit paid on accidental death of the Life Insured in addition to Death Benefit under the base plan. Kotak Critical Illness Plus Benefit Rider (UIN: 107B020V02): Rider Sum Assured shall be payable on admission of a claim on any one of the 37 covered critical illness, subject to terms and conditions, definitions and specific exclusions Kotak Permanent Disability Benefit Rider (UIN: 107B002V03): 120% of the Rider Sum Assured shall be payable over a period of 5 years. For more details on Riders and exclusions please refer to the Individual Rider Brochure 4 Sample Illustration Given below are premiums for sample combination of entry age and policy term (Regular Pay) for a Basic Sum Assured of ` 2 Crore for a male non- smoker policyholder. 23,000 30,000 40,400 25,000 32,800 44,600 29,600 40,200 56,000 To age 70 years To age 85 years Entry age↓ / Policy Term → 30 years 35 years 40 years To age 75 years Premiums mentioned above are annual premiums excluding discounts and Goods and Services Tax and Cess, as applicable and is for a healthy individual male (non-tobacco user). The premiums are further subject to Goods and Services Tax and Cess, as applicable. Eligibility Eligibility Criteria Minimum Maximum Entry Age (Age as on last birthday) 18 years 65 years 50 Years - For Pay till 60 Years Maturity Age (Age as on last birthday) 23 years 85 years Regular Payment Option: Policy Term Premium Payment Term Same as Policy Term Minimum: 5 Years Maximum: Highest of 40 Years or 65 Years less Age at Entry or 70 Years less Age at Entry or 75 Years less Age at Entry or 85 Years less Age at Entry Premium Payment Term (PPT)/Policy Term (PT) 5 Premium Payment Term 5 Pay Minimum 10 years Maximum Policy Term Highest of 40 Years or 65 Years less Age at Entry or 70 Years less Age at Entry or 75 Years less Age at Entry or 85 Years less Age at Entry 7 Pay 12 years 10 Pay 15 years 15 Pay 20 years Pay till 60 Years (Minimum Premium Payment Term of 10 Years) 15 years Premium Payment Term (PPT)/Policy Term (PT) Limited Payment Option: Premium Payment Option Regular, Limited and Single Pay Premium Payment Mode Single, Yearly, Half-Yearly, Quarterly and Monthly Single Payment Option: Policy Term Premium Payment Term Same as Policy Term Minimum: 5 Years Maximum: Highest of 40 Years or 65 Years less Age at Entry or 70 Years less Age at Entry or 75 Years less Age at Entry or 85 Years less Age at Entry 6 The following modal loadings shall be used to calculate the instalment premium in case of Regular and Limited Premium Payment Options: Premium Minimum Premium shall vary based on the Age, Gender & Lifestyle (Tobacco / Non-Tobacco user) of the Life Insured along with Policy Term, Premium Payment Term, Distribution Channel, Mode, and the Basic Sum Assured opted for the policy. Maximum Premium: No limit, but shall depend on the Maximum Basic Sum Assured which is subject to underwriting. Basic Sum Assured Minimum – ₹ 2,00,00,000 Maximum - No limit, subject to Underwriting Policy Health and Wellbeing Benefits: This product offers inbuilt Health & Wellbeing Management Services. The Life Insured shall be eligible to avail health & wellbeing management services such as telemedicine / in person consultation, personal medical care (access to diagnostics and booking of tests), mental wellbeing & lifestyle management programs, emergency response service, home health care and pharmacy access; subject to the following conditions: 7 Modal Factor 51% of Annual Premium 26% of Annual Premium 8.8% of Annual Premium Premium Payment Modal Factor Premium Payment Type Yearly Half-Yearly Quarterly Monthly 100% of Annual Premium • The availability of suitable service provider(s); • Primary diagnosis (wherever applicable) has been done by a registered medical practitioner as may be authorized by a competent statutory authority; • Health & wellbeing management service is available to be utilized throughout the Policy Term; • In case of any change, the details shall be displayed on the Insurer’s website (www.kotaklife.com) or the Life Insured may contact the Insurer’s helpline number before using the Value Added Services. Our helpline number will assist you to utilize the available Value Added Services. • Whenever the Value Added Service is withdrawn, the same shall be communicated to all the Life Insured. Prior to effecting any changes, the Insurer shall inform the same to IRDAI. Note: • These Value Added Services are aimed at improving the Life Insured’s engagement. • These Value Added Services are completely optional for the eligible Life Insured to avail. • The Premiums charged shall not depend on whether such Value Added Services are offered or availed. • The Life Insured may exercise his/ her own discretion to avail the Value Added Services. • These Value Added Services shall be directly provided by the third party service provider(s). • The Value Added Services can be availed only when the Policy/ Rider is in force. 8 • All the supporting medical records should be available to avail the Value Added Services. • The Insurer reserves the right to change the third party service provider(s) at any time. • The Value Added Services are being provided by third party service provider(s) and the Insurer shall not be liable for any liability. Access to Wellbeing Application: The Life Insured shall be provided complete access to a wellness mobile application (“Application”). The Life Insured may download the said Application from kli.in/HY on his/ her own compatible device to access the following: Risk assessment, activity trackers, content and blogs, tools and calculators, electronic health records with Ayushman Bharat Health Account (ABHA) interoperability, challenges and quizzes and other services/ features as may be made available on the Application. By completing the activities and challenges the Life Insured can earn points that can be redeemed against the available Health Management Services through the app. This Application is aimed at encouraging a healthy lifestyle of the Life Insured and provide the necessary tools to manage a healthy lifestyle. This service is offered as an inbuilt benefit and the Premium charged to the Life Insured does not have any loading towards these services. 9 Tax Benefit You may avail of tax benefits as per the Income Tax Act, 1961 subject to conditions as specified in those sections. Tax benefits are subject to change as per tax laws. You are advised to consult your Tax Advisor for details. Goods and Services Tax and Cess, as applicable shall be levied over and above premium amount shown here as per applicable tax laws. Terms and Conditions 1. Death Benefit: In the event of the death of the Life Insured during the Grace Period, any due unpaid Premium shall be reduced from the Sum Assured on Death. In case of non-annual modes of Premium payment, the outstanding instalment Premiums for the balance of the Policy year shall also get deducted from the Sum Assured on Death. 2. Insta Payout on Claim Intimation In case of death of the Life Insured after completion of three (3) consecutive Policy years, from the Date of Commencement of Risk or the date of Revival of the Policy; and subject to the Policy being in force, the Insurer shall endeavour to pay an amount of ₹ 2,00,000 in advance (out of the Death Benefit payable) to the Claimant within two (2) working days from the claim registration date (subject to submission of all required mandatory supporting documents as specified above). Thereafter, the remaining balance amount of the Death Benefit shall be payable to the Claimant once the Death Benefit claim is found admissible by the Insurer as per the terms and conditions mentioned in this Policy Document. 10 If the Death Benefit claim is found to be not admissible by the Insurer, the Claimant must reimburse the Insurer, the aforesaid amount so paid in advance within seven (7) days of receiving the written notice from the Insurer. The Insurer’s decision in this regard shall be conclusive and binding on the Claimant. In case the Claimant fails to reimburse the said amount within the stipulated timeframe, the Insurer reserves the right to take necessary action, including the remedies available under the applicable laws. Note: • This Insta Payout on Claim Intimation should in no manner be construed as acceptance of any Policy liability including full claim settlement assurance. • The said two (2) working day’s period shall be reckoned from the time all documents as mentioned are submitted to the Insurer and no change in the claimant(s) bank details provided at inception of the policy. This calculation shall however specifically exclude Saturdays, Sundays, holidays declared by the Insurer and public holidays. • Any such claim intimation received on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays declared by the Insurer, public holidays and on any working days after 3 P.M.; the said two (2) working days’ period will be reckoned from 9 A.M. of the next working day. • If required, additional documents may be sought by the Insurer, after the initial assessment of submitted documents. • This Insta Payout on Claim Intimation is not applicable for Rider Benefits, if any. 11 3. Discount for Female Lives Customers: There would be a special discount of 16% throughout the premium paying term applicable for female life insured. 4. Additional Discount: There would be an additional discount of 5% in the 1st policy year for Limited & Regular Payment Option and 1% for Single Premium Payment Option applicable for salaried customers, individual life insured under existing policies and members of group policyholders. Note: If the Life Insured is a Salaried Customer, Existing KLI Customer and Member of a group policyholders, he/she shall be eligible for only one discount. 5. Grace Period: There is a grace period of 30 days from the due date for payment of premium for the yearly, half-yearly and quarterly mode. For the monthly mode there is a grace period of 15 days. During this period the policy will be considered to be in-force with risk cover as per the terms of the policy. 6. Riders: The payment of Rider premium shall be made in addition to the premium for the Base Plan and collected along with the premiums for the Base Plan. Premium payment type (Regular/Limited/Single) and premium payment mode of the rider should be same as that of Base Plan. For more details on the Rider, please refer to the rider brochure. 12 7. Lapse: Regular & Limited Premium Paying policy: The policy shall lapse at the end of the Grace Period, if the due premiums are not received during the Premium Payment Term. Single Premium Paying policy: The policy shall not lapse If the policy lapses and not revived subsequently within the Revival Period as per the revival terms and conditions, all the premiums paid under the policy shall be forfeited and the policy shall terminate and no benefits shall be payable on such a policy. 8. Policy Revival: A lapsed policy can be reinstated (with or without Riders) on revival within five years from the date of first unpaid premium. You can revive the policy on payment of the outstanding premiums with interest charge (currently 9% p.a. simple interest of outstanding premiums) along with providing the Company with evidence of continued insurability (such as recent/ fresh medical, financial or other evidence / declaration of good health of the Life Insured) that is acceptable to the Company at your own cost. Rider(s) cannot be revived independently and can only be revived along with the revival of the base plan. Revival shall be effective only on intimation by the Company to you in writing and shall be based on the Board Approved Underwriting Policy (BAUP) and subject to the other terms and conditions of the Policy. Post which, the benefits under the policy shall be reinstated on the revival of the policy. Revival of the policy shall be based on 13 Board Approved Underwriting Policy (BAUP) of the Company. You may be required to pay extra premiums based on the underwriting decision as per the Board Approved Underwriting Policy (BAUP) of the Company. If a lapsed policy is not revived during the revival period, the policy shall be terminated without paying any benefits. Note: This Revival clause is not applicable for Single Premium Payment Option 9. Special Exit Benefit A Special Exit Benefit shall be payable to you, where the Total Premiums paid* plus underwriting extra premiums paid if any, shall be returned if you terminate the policy. The policyholder only has a five years’ time period to avail this option commencing from: For Policy Term greater than 40 years For Policy Term 40 years 30ᵗʰ Policy Year or the policy year when the attained Age of the Life Insured is 60 years (age last birthday), whichever is earlier 25ᵗʰ Policy Year or the policy year when the attained Age of the Life Insured is 60 years (age last birthday), whichever is earlier Note: This is an inbuilt benefit and not an optional benefit. Please note the following conditions for Special Exit Benefit: • The policy has to be in-force at the time of availing this benefit • This benefit shall not be available for policy terms less than 40 years • This benefit shall be applicable on the Base Policy and not on Riders • The policy shall be terminated after availing this benefit • No additional premiums are required to be paid to avail this option. 14 Voluntary Termination Benefit Payable Premium Payment Option Regular Payment Option Not Applicable Limited Payment Option # 60% x (Unexpired Policy Term / Policy Term) x Sum of Total Premium paid* (plus underwriting extra premiums, if any) till date Single Payment Option # 60% x (Unexpired Policy Term / Policy Term) x Sum of Total Premium paid* (plus underwriting extra premiums, if any) till date # Unexpired Policy Term is defined as number of complete years remaining for expiry of the Policy. The Voluntary Termination Value will be paid out as lump sum and once the said value is paid, the Policy shall stand terminated and no further benefits shall be applicable/ payable. 11. Nomination: Nomination shall be allowed under the plan as per the provisions of Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. 15 10. Voluntary Termination Value: The Policy shall not acquire any Voluntary Termination Value under Regular Payment Option. The Voluntary Termination Value will be acquired under Single Payment Option once the Single Premium has been received; and under Limited Payment Option after payment of all due Premiums. In case the policyholder does not want to continue and wishes to terminate the policy, the voluntary termination benefit payable to the policyholder shall be the % as per the table attached below multiplied by the Total Premiums paid* (plus any underwriting extra premiums, if any) till date 12. Assignment: Assignment shall be allowed under this plan as per the provisions of Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. 13. Free Look Period: The Policyholder is offered a 30 days’ free look period to review the terms and conditions of the Policy (except for policies having a policy term of less than a year) beginning from the date of receiving the Policy Document in electronic form. In case the Policyholder is not agreeable to any terms and conditions of the Policy or otherwise; then subject to no claims having been made hereunder, the Policyholder may choose to return the Policy to the Insurer for cancellation, stating the reasons thereof within the aforesaid free look period. Should the Policyholder choose to return the Policy, the Policyholder shall be entitled to a refund of the Premium paid after deducting the proportionate risk Premium for the period of cover, stamp duty charges and expenses of medical examination (if any). A Policy once returned shall not be revived, reinstated or restored at any point of time and a new proposal will have to be made for a new Policy. Where Rider(s) are available under the base Policy and so opted by the Policyholder, the same would also stand cancelled when the free look provision of the base Policy is exercised. 14. Suicide Exclusion: In case of death of the Life Insured due to suicide within 12 months from Date of Commencement of Risk of the Policy or from date of revival of the policy, as applicable, the nominee or beneficiary of the policyholder shall be entitled to, higher of 80% of the Total 16 Premiums paid* (plus underwriting extra premiums, if any) till date of death or Voluntary Termination Value (if any) on the date of death, provided the policy is in force. 15. Loan: Loans are not allowed under this plan. 16. Maturity/Survival Benefit: There is no benefit available on Survival or Maturity of the Policy. 17 Extract of Section 41 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time states: (1) No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement to any person to take or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the insurer: (2) Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this section shall be punishable with fine which may extend to ten lakhs rupees. Section 45 of the insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time states that: Fraud, Misstatement and Forfeiture would be dealt with in accordance with provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. Please visit our website for more details: https://www.kotaklife.com/assets/images/uploads/why_kotak/section38 _39_45_of_insurance_act_1938.pdf 18 About Us Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Ltd. is a 100% owned subsidiary of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (Kotak) which provides insurance products with high customer empathy. Its product suite leverages the combined prowess of protection and long term savings. Kotak Life Insurance is one of the growing insurance companies in India and has covered over several million lives. For more information, please visit the company's website at www.kotaklife.com Kotak Mahindra Group Kotak Mahindra Group is one of India's leading banking and financial services organizations, offering a wide range of financial services that encompass every sphere of life. From commercial banking, to stock broking, mutual funds, life insurance and investment banking, the Group caters to the diverse financial needs of individuals and the corporate sector. For more information, please visit the company’s website at www.kotak.com 19 TOLL FREE 1800 120 7856 WhatsApp: 9321003007 www.kotaklife.com BEWARE OF SPURIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS /FRAUDULENT OFFERS IRDAI or its officials do not involve in activities like selling insurance policies, announcing bonus or investment of premiums. Public receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint. Kotak Signature Term Plan - UIN: 107N139V01, Kotak Permanent Disability Benefit Rider - UIN: 107B002V03, Kotak Critical Illness Plus Benefit Rider - UIN: 107B020V02, Kotak Accidental Death Benefit Rider – UIN: 107B001V04. This is a Non-Participating Non-Linked Life Insurance Individual Pure Risk Product. For sub-standard lives, extra premium may be charged based on Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company’s underwriting policy. The sales brochure gives only the salient features of the plan. Please refer to the Policy Document for specific details on all terms and conditions. For more details on riders please read the Rider Brochure. Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Ltd., CIN:U66030MH2000PLC128503; Regn. No.:107, Regd. Office: 8th Floor, Plot # C- 12, G- Block, BKC, Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400 051. Website: www.kotaklife.com ; Toll Free No. –1800 120 7856, Ref. No.: KLI/25-26/E-PB/878. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited and is used by Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Ltd. under license. 20