Tailored return of premium to align with your ﬁnancial objectives Design policy from a wide range of annuity options Flexible premium payment & personalised income timing Inﬂation friendly income with growing annuity$ #3 in 5 Indians feel that their retirement corpus will dry up within 10 years. Ensure lifetime income by planning today, secure your future and the future of your loved ones because for them, Live retired life on your terms with SWAG Pension, a single solution with the flexibility to customise it to suit your specific needs. Lifetime Pension Lifelong SWAG Presenting Non-Linked Non-Participating Individual/Group General Annuity Savings Plan | UIN: 104N137V04 Smart Wealth Annuity Guaranteed Pension Plan MAX LIFE Max Life Ka Bharosa KEY FEATURES OF MAX LIFE SMART WEALTH ANNUITY GUARANTEED+ PENSION PLAN CHOOSE YOUR PLAN IN 4 SIMPLE STEPS: PLAN FEATURES Features Max Life Smart Wealth Annuity Guaranteed Pension Plan Annuity Variants available under this plan 1. Design your policy from wide range of Immediate and Deferred annuity options. 2. Opt for ﬂexible premium payments; decide income timings with ease. 3. Stay ahead of inﬂation and boost your annual income with increasing annuity variants. 4. Choose when and how much return of premium you require to meet your ﬁnancial goals. 5. Get guaranteed+ lifelong annuity for you and your loved ones. 6. With advance annuity option, you can take your next 5 year annuities in advance as a lumpsum. Step 1: Choose the premiums you wish to pay or choose the annuity amount you wish to receive. Step 2: Choose how long you want to pay the premium (premium payment term) and when you want to start receiving the annuity amount (deferment period). Step 3: Choose annuity variants, annuity payout mode and premium payment mode. Step 4: Pay premiums for the chosen duration and enjoy guaranteed+ annuity for life. Single Premium Variants 1 Immediate Annuity: Following sub-variants are available under this variant: a. Single Life without Death Beneﬁt: This variant provides annuity for life till death of the annuitant. Death beneﬁt is not applicable under this variant. b. Joint Life without Death Beneﬁt: This variant provides annuity for life till death of last survivor. Death beneﬁt is not applicable under this variant. c. Single Life with Death Beneﬁt: This variant provides annuity for life till death of the annuitant with return of proportion of Total Premiums Paid on death. The proportion can vary from 25% to 100% (in multiples of 25%) and has to be chosen at inception only. d. Joint Life with Death Beneﬁt: This variant provides annuity for life till death of last survivor with return of proportion of Total Premiums Paid on ﬁrst death and the remaining Total Premiums Paid shall be payable upon second death. The proportion can vary from 0% to 100% (in multiples of 25%) and has to be chosen at inception only. It shall be noted that in case of ﬁrst death during the ﬁrst ﬁve policy years, the annuity shall continue till death of the last survivor, thereafter, 100% of the Total Premiums Paid shall be payable upon second death and policy terminates. 2. Immediate Annuity with chosen proportion of Annuity to Last Survivor: Following sub-variants are available under this variant: a. Joint Life without Death Beneﬁt: A ﬁxed annuity amount, guaranteed at policy inception, shall be payable in arrears till both the annuitants are alive. On ﬁrst death of either of the annuitants, annuity payable to the last survivor shall be revised to the chosen annuity multiple times (either 50% or 110%) the annuity payable at inception. No death beneﬁt shall be payable. b. Joint Life with Death Beneﬁt: A ﬁxed annuity amount, guaranteed at policy inception, shall be payable in arrears till both the annuitants are alive. On ﬁrst death of either of the annuitants, annuity payable to the last survivor shall be revised to the chosen annuity multiple times (either 50% or 110%) the annuity payable at inception. On death of the last survivor, 100% of the Total Premiums Paid shall be payable and policy will terminate. 3. Immediate Annuity with Early Return of Premium: This variant is available for Single Life with Death Beneﬁt Only. In this variant, the policyholder has a ﬂexibility to take early return of either 50% or 100% of Total Premiums Paid upon survival till the chosen milestone age and 100% of Total Premiums Paid less beneﬁt already paid at the milestone age, if any, shall be payable to the nominee on death of the annuitant. The milestone age can be opted amongst 70/75/80/85 years of Age (last birthday). The proportion of Total Premiums Paid (i.e.50% or 100%) and milestone age has to be chosen at inception of the policy. Features Max Life Smart Wealth Annuity Guaranteed Pension Plan 4. Immediate Annuity for Guaranteed Period and Life thereafter: This option is available for Single Life without Death Beneﬁt only. In this variant, policyholder can choose the guaranteed period of 5/10/15/20 years at inception of the policy. The annuity under the policy shall continue till the end of guaranteed period or till the death of the annuitant, whichever is later. On death of the annuitant after the guaranteed period (as opted at inception), the policy will terminate without any further beneﬁt payout. 5. Increasing Immediate Annuity: Following sub-variants are available under this variant: a. Single Life Increasing Annuity Each Year with Death Beneﬁt: In this variant, the policyholder can choose the % of increase in annuity from 1% to 6% (in multiples of 1) at inception of the policy. b. Single Life Increasing Annuity Every 3 Years with Death Beneﬁt: In this variant, the annuity at inception is guaranteed to increase @15% (Simple Increase) in every 3 years. Upon death of the annuitant, 100% of the Total Premiums Paid shall be payable and policy will terminate. 6. Deferred Annuity: In this variant, policyholder has to opt deferment period and premium payment term at the inception of the policy. The annuity payment starts after the end of deferment period based upon the chosen annuity payment frequency. The Deferment period should always be equal or greater than premium payment term. Following sub-variants are available under this variant: a. Single Life with Death Beneﬁt till Deferment Period - Single Premium: Under this variant, a ﬁxed annuity amount, guaranteed at policy inception, shall be payable in arrears after the expiry of the deferment period till death of the annuitant. On death of the annuitant during deferment period, minimum 105% of the total premium, shall be payable to the nominee(s) as death beneﬁt. b. Joint Life with Death Beneﬁt till Deferment Period - Single Premium: Under this variant, a ﬁxed annuity amount, guaranteed at policy inception, shall be payable in arrears after the expiry of the deferment period till death of the last annuitant. On death of the last annuitant during deferment period, minimum 105% of the total premium, shall be payable to the nominee(s) as death beneﬁt. c. Single Life with Death Beneﬁt for Life - Single Premium: Under this variant, a ﬁxed annuity amount, guaranteed at policy inception, shall be payable in arrears after the expiry of the deferment period till death of the annuitant. Annuity payout will cease on the death of the annuitant and minimum 105% of the total premium, shall be payable to the nominee(s) as death beneﬁt. d. Joint Life with Death Beneﬁt for Life - Single Premium: Under this variant, a ﬁxed annuity amount, guaranteed at policy inception, shall be payable in arrears after the expiry of the deferment period till death of the last annuitant. Annuity payout will cease on the death of the last annuitant and minimum 105% of the total premium, shall be payable to the nominee(s) as death beneﬁt. Note: For policies sold through Point Of Sales (POS) persons, currently, only “Immediate Annuity – Single Life with Death Beneﬁt and Immediate Annuity – Joint Life with Death Beneﬁt” is available. Only, upon death of the annuitant in case of single life and upon death of Last Survivor in case of joint life, 100% of the Total Premiums Paid shall be payable. Limited Premium Variants e. Single Life with Death Beneﬁt till Deferment Period - Limited Premium: Under this variant, a ﬁxed annuity amount, guaranteed at policy inception, shall be payable in arrears after the expiry of the deferment period till death of the annuitant. On death of the annuitant during deferment period, minimum 105% of the total premium, shall be payable to the nominee(s) as death beneﬁt. Where, Fixed Annuity Amount = Base Annuity + Loyalty Annuity f. Joint Life with Death Beneﬁt till Deferment Period - Limited Premium: Under this variant, a ﬁxed annuity amount, guaranteed at policy inception, shall be payable in arrears after the expiry of the deferment period till death of the last annuitant. On death of the annuitants during deferment period, minimum 105% of the total premium, shall be payable to the nominee(s) as death beneﬁt. Where, Fixed Annuity Amount = Base Annuity + Loyalty Annuity g. Single Life with Death Beneﬁt for Life - Limited Premium: Under this variant, a ﬁxed annuity amount, guaranteed at policy inception, shall be payable in arrears after the expiry of the deferment period till death of the annuitant. Annuity payout will cease on the death of the annuitant and minimum 105% of the total premium, shall be payable to the nominee(s) as death beneﬁt. Where, Fixed Annuity Amount = Base Annuity + Loyalty Annuity Eligibility Criteria Features Max Life Smart Wealth Annuity Guaranteed Pension Plan Policy Term Annuity Payment Modes Qualifying Recognized Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS), Minimum and maximum premium Deferment Period (Applicable to Deferred Annuity variants only) Deferment Period (Applicable to Deferred Annuity variants only) Limited premium: Years Minimum Maximum Deferment period Same as PPT Maximum Premium Payment Term available in the plan, (in years) subject to maximum vesting age Vesting age 30 years 97 Year Single premium: Years Minimum Maximum Deferment period 1 month 12 years subject to maximum vesting age Allowed deferment period: in months from 1 to 36 months and then 48, 60, 72, 84, 96, 108, 120, 132 and 144 month. Vesting age 25 Year 1 month 97 Year Features Max Life Smart Wealth Annuity Guaranteed Pension Plan Premium Payment Mode Factor 0.08 Monthly 0.24 Quarterly 0.49 Semi Annually Modal factors applicable for modes other than annual mode h. Joint Life with Death Beneﬁt for Life - Limited Premium: Under this variant, a ﬁxed annuity amount, guaranteed at policy inception, shall be payable in arrears after the expiry of the deferment period till death of the last annuitant. Annuity payout will cease on the death of the last annuitant and minimum 105% of the total premium, shall be payable to the nominee(s) as death beneﬁt. Where, Fixed Annuity Amount = Base Annuity + Loyalty Annuity Loyalty Annuity is 20% of the Base Annuity and shall accrue on completion of deferment period. Loyalty Annuity shall be payable in arrears along with the Base Annuity payout as per chosen Annuity payment mode. Minimum entry age* for variant 1,2,3,4,5 and 6 is 25 years and Maximum entry age* for variant 1,2,4,5 and 6 is 85 years. For variant 3, Maximum entry age* is Opted Milestone Age minus 10 years. For Point of Sale (POS) Policy: The product shall comply with all the extant provision, rules, regulations, guidelines, circulars, directions, etc. applicable for POS products, as amended from time to time. Currently, Minimum entry age* is 40 years and Maximum Entry age* is 70 years *Age last birthday The restrictions on the minimum and maximum entry age shall not be applicable for National Pension System (NPS) Subscribers & for Superannuation schemes or where the proceeds are from a contract issued or administered by the Company where compulsory purchase of Annuity is required. Variant 1.a, 1.c, 3, 5, 6.a, 6.c, 6.e and 6.g : till death of the annuitant Variant: 1.b, 1.d, 2, 6.b, 6.d, 6.f, 6.h: till death of the last survivor. Variant 4: Guaranteed Period chosen at inception of the policy or till annuitant is alive, whichever is later Company shall comply to HMRC Regulations, as amended from time to time. As per the current HMRC regulations as on 1st Sept’2023, the minimum entry age/age at which Annuity payouts start of the Life Insured cannot be less than 55 (Fifty-Five) years. Further, existing QROPS policyholders may buy non-QROPS policy, but the minimum vesting age/age at which Annuity payouts start of the Life Insured cannot be less than 55 (Fifty-Five) years. Further, an existing non-QROPS policyholder shall not be allowed to purchase a QROPS policy if s/he holds an annuity policy with Max Life where vesting age is less than 55 (Fifty-Five) years. Minimum premium: Minimum Purchase price is subject to minimum annuity payout being at least Rs. 1000 monthly, Rs. 3000 quarterly, Rs. 6000 half yearly or Rs. 12000 annually, in accordance with the IRDAI (Minimum Limits for Annuities and other Beneﬁts) Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to time. Maximum premium: As per Board Approved Underwriting policy. Annuity payout shall happen at the end of the modal period only. The mode of annuity payout can be chosen as annual, Semi-annual, quarterly or monthly. Premium Payment Mode Factor 1.0000 0.5075 0.2558 0.0857 Annual Semi-annual Quarterly Monthly Modal factors (in case limited premium variant is chosen) Single premium Limited premium: Annual, Semi-annual, Quarterly, Monthly Proof of Living Certiﬁcate Other Options Available The annuity will be payable subject to the submission of a ‘Proof of Living’ certiﬁcate, along with a self-attested identiﬁcation proof, 30 days before the end of every year for policies without death beneﬁt variants and 30 days before the end of every 5 policy years for policies with death beneﬁt variants, as per the prevailing terms and condition of the company. Living certiﬁcate would be required in following time period: For Immediate Annuity for Guaranteed Period and Life thereafter variant, 30 days before the end of every policy year, post completion of Guaranteed period. For Immediate Annuity with Early Return of Premium variant, • Early return of 50% of Total Premiums Paid: 30 days before the end of every 5 policy years • Early return of 100% of Total Premiums Paid: o Before attaining Milestone age/ payment of 100% of Total Premiums Paid: 30 days before the end of every 5 policy years o Post Milestone age: once every policy year Please note that the Living Certiﬁcate is a pre-requisite for continuance of the annuity pay-outs and Max Life Insurance reserve the right to suspend the Annuity payment till the proof is provided. Surrender, Premium payment mode change, Reduced paid up, Revival, Rider and Loan options are available under this plan depending on the Annuity option chosen. For further details, refer the detailed prospectus available on www.maxlifeinsurance.com. All extant rules, regulations, circulars and notiﬁcations shall be adhered to at the time of issuance of the annuity product for NPS subscribers, subject to compliance with IRDAI norms, as amended from time to time. Premium Payment Modes Advance Annuity Option The premium payment mode can be altered during the premium payment term and will be eﬀective only on the policy anniversary following the receipt of such request, provided the limits of minimum premium are adhered to. 1. This is an option to withdraw present value of annuities payable in next 5 years in advance as a lump sum. 2. This option is only available under Immediate Annuity - Joint Life with Death Beneﬁt and Immediate Annuity with chosen proportion of Annuity to Last Survivor – Joint Life with death beneﬁt variants. 3. It can be availed anytime within 3 months from the date of ﬁrst death amongst the annuitants. 4. Advance Annuity Period of 5 years shall start from the next policy anniversary after the death of the 1st life. 5. The annuity payment during the policy year of exercising this option shall continue to be payable as and when due. 6. In case this option is exercised the lump sum is paid immediately, the annuity payment for next 5 years shall stop starting from the next Policy anniversary. 7. Once the advance annuity period of 5 years ends, the annuity payment shall resume as per the original terms and conditions. Case Study 1 HOW THE PLAN WORKS FOR YOU? Mrs. Verma, 60 years old, an independent entrepreneur who had dedicated her life to her career. She is looking for a plan which can provide higher income during her retirement and a lumpsum beneﬁt to her daughter upon her death. Mrs. Verma purchases Max Life Smart Wealth Annuity Guaranteed Pension Plan - Immediate Annuity - Single Life with Death Beneﬁt variant and opted return of 50% of the Total Premiums Paid upon her death and paid a Single premium of Rs.1 Crore. This will provide her a steady income of Rs.7,09,400 as long as she lives. Upon her death at age 80, lumpsum death beneﬁt of Rs.50 Lacs is paid to her daughter and policy terminates. Mrs. and Mr. Sharma, both 60-years-old who have just retired from their service and live with their 25-year-old son. Mr. Sharma is concerned about his family well-being when he is not around. He purchases Max Life Smart Wealth Annuity Guaranteed Pension Plan - Immediate Annuity - Joint Life with Death Beneﬁt and opted return of 50% of the Total Premiums Paid. Upon his death, Mrs. Sharma will receive 50% of the Total Premiums Paid and remaining 50% of the Total Premium shall be paid to their son (nominee under the policy) upon death of Mrs. Sharma. He purchased plan with a single premium of Rs.1Cr (exclusive of GST). Mr. Sharma will continue to receive a guaranteed annuity of Rs.6,08,600 every year. Upon death of Mr. Sharma at age 67, Mrs. Sharma will receive an immediate death beneﬁt of Rs.50 Lacs. In addition, the annuity payouts will continue as long as she survives. Upon her death at age 80, the remaining 50% of the Total Premiums Paid i.e. Rs.50 Lacs shall be payable to her son and policy terminates. Case Study 2 ` ` Annuity is paid every year Policy Year Annuity starts On annuitant’s death, 50% of Total Premiums Paid i.e. Rs. 50 Lacs is payable to nominee and policy terminates Single Premium of Rs. 1 Crore Annuitant dies at 80 0 1 60 61 80 20 Annuitant Age RIP ` ` ` Annuity is paid every year Annuity continues every year till death of last annuitant Balance premiums i.e. Rs.50 Lacs is paid to nominee and policy terminates Policy Year Annuity starts 50% of Total Premiums Paid i.e. Lump sum beneﬁt of Rs. 50 Lacs Single Premium of Rs. 1 Crore Annuitant 1 dies at 67 Annuitant 2 dies at 80 0 1 7 20 60 61 60 61 67 80 67 Annuitant 1 Age Annuitant 2 Age RIP RIP ` Annuity is paid every year Minimum death beneﬁt of 105% of total premiums paid i.e. 25,20,000 is payable on death of last survivor Deferment of 8 years Policy Year Premium of 3 Lacs p.a. paid for 8 Years Annuitant 2 dies at 90 Annuitant 1 dies at 65 52 0 8 9 13 35 60 63 64 68 61 65 55 90 Annuitant 1 Age Annuitant 2 Age RIP RIP Case Study 3 Mr. Verma is a 52-year-old individual, who has plans to retire from service at the age of 60 years. He lives with his wife Mrs. Verma aged 55 years. He purchases Max Life Smart Wealth Annuity Guaranteed Pension Plan - Deferred Annuity – Joint Life with Death Beneﬁt for Life - Limited Premium and for deferment period of 8 years. He wants to pay Rs.3 Lacs p.a. (exclusive of GST) for 8 years to plan for his and his wife’s retirement income. He has named his granddaughter as nominee in this plan. From 9th policy year, he starts receiving guaranteed annuity payout of Rs.2,37,161 every year. Upon unfortunate death of Mr. Verma in the 13th policy year, Mrs. Verma will continue to receive the guaranteed annual payout of Rs. 2,37,161 as long as she survives. Upon her death at age 90 years, death beneﬁt of Rs.25,20,000 shall be payable to the nominee and the policy terminates. Please Note: The above case study is an illustration and does not in any way create any rights and / or obligations. The rates shown in the case study are only illustrative reference values. These amounts are basis the Annuity Rates as of May 2024. Max Life Insurance Company Limited, Distributed by Axis Bank. ^Individual Death Claims Paid Ratio as per Audited Financials for FY 2022-2023. | *As on 31st March 2024. +The guaranteed benefits are applicable only if all due payments are paid. #As per India Retirement Index Study (IRIS 3.0) 2023 conducted by Max Life Insurance in association with Kantar. Annuities purchased under NPS payable to Non-resident Indians (NRIs)/Overseas Citizens of India (OCIs) are subject to Tax deducted at source (TDS). Further repatriation of the corpus, if any will be subject to applicable laws and regulatory provisions of IRDAI/PFRDA/RBI. $Available in Increasing Immediate Annuity Variant only. The Brand Ambassadors as depicted herein, have endorsed only the Max Life Insurance products and are not in any manner endorsing Axis Bank Limited and do not have any kind of association or relationship, with Axis Bank Limited. Axis Bank Limited is a Co-promoter and a Corporate Agent of Max Life Insurance Co. Ltd. Axis Bank Limited, Bombay Dyeing Mills Compound, Pandurang Budhkar Marg, Worli, Mumbai – 400 025. The purchase of a Max Life Insurance product(s) by Axis Bank's customer is purely on a voluntary basis. As Axis Bank is not in the business of insurance, there is no link either direct or indirect between the banking services offered by the bank to its customers and use of the insurance products. Max Life Insurance Company Limited is a Joint Venture between Max Financial Services Limited and Axis Bank Limited. Corporate Office: 11th Floor, DLF Square Building, Jacaranda Marg, DLF City Phase II, Gurugram (Haryana)- 122002. For more details on risk factors, terms and conditions, please read the prospectus carefully before concluding a sale. You may be entitled to certain applicable tax benefits on your premiums and policy benefits. Please note all the tax benefits are subject to tax laws prevailing at the time of payment of premium or receipt of benefits by you. Tax benefits are subject to changes in tax laws. Insurance is the Subject matter of solicitation. Trade logo displayed belongs to Max Financial Services Ltd. and Axis Bank Ltd. respectively and with their consents, are used by Max Life Insurance Co. Ltd. You can call us on our Customer Helpline No. 1860 120 5577. Website: www.maxlifeinsurance.com ARN: Max Life/MaxIS/Axis/SWAG Pension Leaflet/May 2024 IRDAI Certificate Regn. No. CA0069 | IRDAI Regn. No. 104 BEWARE OF SPURIOUS / FRAUD PHONE CALLS! • IRDAI is not involved in activities like selling insurance policies, announcing bonus or investment of premiums • Public receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint 3.0