**An accelerated benefit is payable upon intimation of death, subjected to certain term and conditions as mentioned in the policy contract. In case of repudiation / rejection of claim, the amount will be recovered from the nominee. @Flat 15% discount for female life insured | Optional Maternity cover to safeguard themselves against certain pregnancy related complications and their new born against Congenital Anomalies | Lifeline plus offers flexibility to avail Top-up in the event of the death of the spouse of female life insured. 1 4 Plan Variants for Total Flexibility Insta Payment on Claim Intimation** Get back 200% of your total premiums paid as Special Exit Value## Exclusive Beneﬁts for Women@ STAY PROTECTED with SMART TERM PLAN PLUS AXIS MAX LIFE A Non Linked Non Participating Individual Pure Risk Life Insurance Plan | UIN: 104N127V01 Because your family deserves Double Bharosa. Key beneﬁts available: 24 12 MLI 12258463 SM A4 SMART TERM PLAN PLUS LEAFLET You always strive to provide comfort and security for your family, ensuring their future is safeguarded at all times. To protect them against life's uncertainties, you need a life insurance plan that offers Double Bharosa – unwavering trust and unmatched flexibility. Introducing the Axis Max Life Smart Term Plan Plus – designed to provide customized protection that evolves with your changing needs and life stages. With its wide range of flexible options, this plan ensures tailored coverage, empowering you to build a safety net that’s strong, reliable, and perfectly suited to your family’s journey. • Flexibility to choose from 4 plan variants based on your needs • Cover Continuance Benefit • Insta Payment on Claim Intimation • Get back 200% of your total premiums paid as Special Exit Value## • Protect your monthly income in your absence with Income Protection cover plan variant • Inbuilt Terminal Illness • Exclusive Key Features for Female Life Insured: o Maternity Cover*: Female Life Insured can safeguard themselves against certain Pregnancy related complications and their new born against Congenital Anomalies. o Lifeline Plus: Flexibility to avail Top-up in the event of the death of the spouse of female Life insured with premium rates based on inception rates, attained age and revised total Sum Assured band. o Female Life Discount: A flat 15% discount on the premium (compared to the premium for Male life insured) will be applicable throughout the Premium Payment Term for Female Life Insured. *on payment of additional premium ##Applicable for plan variants other than ‘Return of Premium’. The policyholder will get back 200% of total premiums paid plus underwriting extra premiums paid plus loadings for modal premiums (if any), if the policyholder exercises this option at policy year (Policy Term minus 10) only. This option will not be applicable for Regular Pay and Pay till 60. The minimum policy term will be 40 years for special exit value. Key Features Introducing Axis Max Life Smart Term Plan Plus 2 24 12 MLI 12258463 SM A4 SMART TERM PLAN PLUS LEAFLET Variants available under this plan You shall choose one Plan Variant at the inception of the policy. The option once selected cannot be changed at a later date. Premium payable will vary depending upon the Plan Variant, Premium Payment Term, Policy Term and Premium payment mode chosen. Let us look into all these Plan variants in detail: Plan Variants Death Benefit Terminal Illness Return of Premium Maternity Cover% Regular Cover √ √ × √ Smart Cover √ √ × √ Return of Premium √ √ √ √ Income Protection Cover √ √ × √ S.No Variant Brief Summary 1 Regular Cover Under this plan variant, the Base Sum Assured chosen at inception will remain level throughout the term of the policy. In case life assured dies during the policy term, the Guaranteed Death benefit shall be payable and policy terminates thereafter. This plan variant is also available for policies sourced as POS product. 2 Smart Cover Under this plan variant 150% of base sum assured is payable in case of death of life insured within first fifteen policy years and 100% of base sum assured is payable in case of death of life insured after first fifteen policy years. 3 Return of Premium Under this plan variant, the Base Sum Assured chosen at inception will remain level throughout the term of the policy. In case life assured dies during the policy term, the Guaranteed Death benefit shall be payable and policy terminates thereafter. In case of survival of life insured till the end of policy term, 100% of the total premiums paid (plus underwriting extra premiums paid plus loading for modal premiums, if any), will be payable. This plan variant is also available for policies sourced as POS product. %Available on payment of additional premium for Female life insured only. 3 24 12 MLI 12258463 SM A4 SMART TERM PLAN PLUS LEAFLET S.No Variant Brief Summary 4 Income Protection Under this plan variant, in case of death of life assured during the policy Cover term, provided the policy is in force, the Guaranteed Death benefit will be payable in the form of ‘monthly income applicable at the time of death’ commencing from the end of the policy month on or after the date of intimation of death and continue for each policy month till higher of 120 months or the outstanding term in months. Where outstanding term in months is equal to number of whole months from the date of death to the end of the Policy Term. The policyholder will have the choice to opt for either ‘Level Income’ or ‘Inflation proof Income’ options. The ‘monthly income applicable at the time of death’ will depend on the option chosen by the policyholder and the same has been defined below: • Level Income: ‘monthly income applicable at the time of death’ is equal to the monthly income chosen at inception. • Inflation proof Income: ‘monthly income applicable at the time of death’ is equal to the monthly income chosen at inception increased by 10% every 3 years (simple interest) from inception capped at 200% of the monthly income chosen at inception. After the death of the Life Insured, there shall be no increase in the income under this variant. 4 Optional Benefits/Riders available under the plan (on payment of additional premiums) Applicable Riders available on the payment of Additional Premium are Axis Max Life Critical Illness and Disability Rider| Non-Linked Non-Participating Individual Pure Risk Health Insurance Rider |UIN: 104B033V02 Axis Max Life Waiver of Premium Plus Rider | A Non-Linked Non-Participating Individual Pure Risk Health Insurance Rider | UIN: 104B029V05 Axis Max Life Accidental Death and Dismemberment Rider| A Non-Linked Non-Participating Individual Pure Risk Health Insurance Rider|UIN: 104B027V05 S.No Benefits Brief Summary Female Life Insured can safeguard themselves against certain Pregnancy 1 Maternity Cover related complications and their new born against Congenital Anomalies. For more details kindly refer to the product prospectus. 2 Waiver of Premium Comprehensive protection (waiver of future premiums) against Plus Rider Disability & Critical Illness. 3 Critical Illness and Comprehensive coverage against the risk of critical illness and Disability Rider disability. 4 Accidental Death and Comprehensive protection against Death or Dismemberment due to Dismemberment Rider accident. 24 12 MLI 12258463 SM A4 SMART TERM PLAN PLUS LEAFLET 5 Inbuilt Additional Features Sr. Additional/ No Benefits Accelerated Brief description Sum Assured** The Policyholder is allowed to defer the due premium Cover for a period of up to 12 months from the due date, while 1 Continuance NA maintaining the full risk cover under the base plan and Benefit attached riders (if any). This option is allowed to be exercised after completion of 3 policy years provided all due premiums have been paid and the policy is in-force. Option to receive all premiums paid back, in any policy year starting 30th policy year, but not during the last 4 policy years. No additional premium to be paid (free of cost).In addition to the SEV benefit mentioned above, for PPT variants (excluding Regular pay and Pay till 60), the policyholder will be entitled to an additional Special Exit 2 Special Exit Value NA Value (SEV) benefit. This benefit will also be calculated as a proportion of the total premiums paid, underwriting extra premiums paid, and loadings for modal premiums (if any), based on the table provided below. The policyholder can exercise this option between “Policy Term minus 13 years” and “Policy Term minus 7 years”. The table outlines the additional proportion as well as the total proportion of the premiums paid (including underwriting extra premiums and loadings for modal premiums, if applicable) upon exercising the SEV option during the specified policy years. Policy year Additional SEV% Total SEV% Policy Term minus 13th 25% 125% Policy Term minus 12th 50% 150% Policy Term minus 11th 75% 175% Policy Term minus 10th 100% 200% Policy Term minus 9th 75% 175% Policy Term minus 8th 50% 150% Policy Term minus 7th 25% 125% Exclusively for Female Life Insured. Flexibility to avail 3 Lifeline Plus Additional Top-up in the event of the death of the spouse of female Life insured with premium rates based on inception rates, attained age and revised total Sum Assured band. Lifeline Plus is available only with Regular Cover & Return of Premium plan variants. 24 12 MLI 12258463 SM A4 SMART TERM PLAN PLUS LEAFLET Sr. Additional/ No Benefits Accelerated Brief description Sum Assured** Exclusively for Female Life Insured. Flexibility to avail 4 Lifeline Plus Additional Top-up in the event of the death of the spouse of female Life insured with premium rates based on inception rates, attained age and revised total Sum Assured band. Lifeline Plus is available only with Regular Cover & Return of Premium plan variants. An accelerated benefit as applicable out of base sum Insta Payment assured shall be payable within 1 working day from claim 5 on Claim Accelerated registration date provided mandatory documents are Intimation submitted and the subsequent pay out shall be made after the claim is approved. Health Policyholder will have the option to take Health 6 Management NA Management Services such as medical second opinion, Services medical consultation, discounts on medicines from the service providers registered with the company. Get free coverage against the diagnosis of Terminal Illness 7 Terminal Illness Accelerated and accelerate** payout of Rs. 1 crore. No additional premium to be paid. Empower the nominee to choose the payout mode, at 8 Claim Payout Base claims stage: • Lumpsum • Monthly Income^^ • Part Lumpsum and Part Monthly Income^^ 6 **Accelerated Sum Assured is the sum assured paid and reduced from the base sum assured. ^^Claim payout in the form of monthly income will be available with all plan variants except Income Protection cover variant How does this plan works? Variant 1- Regular Cover Tarun a non-smoker, 30 year old doctor wants to safeguard his family from financial uncertainties that could arise of his untimely demise. He purchases Axis Max Life Smart Term Plan Plus Regular Cover variant, for a sum assured of Rs. 2 Crores and chooses a policy term of 40 years and pays Rs. 22,554 as annualised premium for the entire policy term. In case of his unfortunate event of death during 30th policy year, a lump sum death benefit of 2 Crores shall be payable to the beneficiary and the policy will terminate thereafter. Age: 30 Years Policy Term 0 1 30 40 Age: 70 Years Annual Premium of Rs. 22,554 (excl taxes) payable throughout the policy team Rs. 2 Crore paid on Death 24 12 MLI 12258463 SM A4 SMART TERM PLAN PLUS LEAFLET 7 Variant 2 - Smart Cover Rahul a non-smoker, 30 year old advocate working with a legal firm wants to safeguard his children’s future from financial uncertainties that could arise of his untimely demise. He purchases Axis Max Life Smart Term Plan Plus Smart Cover variant, for a base sum assured of Rs. 2 Crore and chooses a policy term of 25 years and chooses to pay Rs. 34,168 as annualised premium for 10 years. In case of his unfortunate event of death the Sum Assured on Death will be 150% of base sum assured in case of death of life insured within first fifteen policy years and 100% of base sum assured in case of death of life insured after first fifteen policy years. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 15 25 Sum Assured on Death = Rs. 3 Crs Premium Payment Term of 10 yrs Sum Assured on Death = Rs. 2 Cr Policy Term Death of Life Assured Age 30 Age 45 Variant 3 - Return of Premium Hitesh a non-smoker, 30 year old IT professional wants to safeguard his family from financial uncertainties that could arise of his untimely demise in future and is looking for a plan where he can get his Total Premiums Paid back at the end of the policy term in case of no event of his death and non-diagnosis of any Terminal Illness. He purchases Axis Max Life Smart Term Plan Return of Premium variant, for a base sum assured of Rs. 1 Crore and chooses a policy term of 40 years and chooses to pay Rs. 43,095 annualised premium for 15 years. Scenario 1: 2 Cr Death Benefit-will be paid to the beneficiary & policy will terminate Death of Life Assured Scenario 2: Maturity Benefit-Total Premiums Paid will be paid back to the policy holder at the end of the policy term. Base Sum Assured Rs. 2 Crores Premium Payment Term of 15 yrs Age 30 Age 70 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 15 25 40 Policy Term Let’s understand how the Death Benefit will be payable under this variant with the help of two different scenarios. • Scenario 1: In case of an unfortunate event of the death of Mr. Hitesh during the chosen policy term, death benefit equal to the Base Sum Assured of 1 Crore will be payable to the beneficiary and policy will terminate thereafter. • Scenario 2: In case of the survival of Mr. Hitesh till the end of policy term, 100% of the total premiums paid Rs. 6,46,425 will be payable to him. 24 12 MLI 12258463 SM A4 SMART TERM PLAN PLUS LEAFLET 8 Variant 4 - Income Protection Cover - Level Income Praveen a non-smoker, 35 year old university professor wants to safeguard his family from financial uncertainties that could arise due to his untimely demise and is looking out for a plan that could provide a level monthly income to his nominee(s) to ensure the similar level of financial stability during his absence. He purchases Axis Max Life Smart Term Plan Plus Income Protection Cover variant, for Rs. 1Lac as Level ‘monthly income applicable at the time of death’ with policy term of 40 years and pays Rs. 27,094 annualised premium for the entire policy term. In case of an unfortunate event of his death during the 5th policy year, the Sum Assured on Death is higher of 120 times ‘monthly income applicable at the time of death’ or ‘monthly income applicable at the time of death’ times outstanding term in months. Where outstanding term in months is equal to number of whole months from the date of death to the end of the Policy Term. Monthly Level Income of 1L for next 35 years Age 35 40 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Policy Term Death of Life Assured 1.5L Monthly Income for outstanding term in months. No further inflation proofing Age 35 0 1 2 4 3 5 6 7 10 17 40 Policy Term Death of Life Assured Income cover of 1L Income cover of 1.1L Income cover of 1.2L Income cover increases by 10% after every 3 years Variant 4 - Income Protection Cover - Inflation proof Income Parth a non-smoker, 35 year old software developer wants to safeguard his family from financial uncertainties that could arise due to his untimely demise and is looking out for a plan that could provide an inflation proof monthly income to his nominee(s) to ensure the similar level of financial stability during his absence. He purchases Axis Max Life Smart Term Plan Plus Income Protection Cover variant, for Rs.1 Lac as monthly income applicable at the time of death and choose Inflation proof Income as an option with policy term of 40 years and pays Rs. 41,515 annualised premium for the entire policy term. In case of the death of Mr. Parth during the 17th policy year, provided the policy is in force, the Guaranteed Death benefit will be payable in the form of ‘monthly income applicable at the time of death’ i.e. Rs 1.5 Lacs commencing from the end of the policy month on or after the date of intimation of death and continue for each policy month till higher of 120 months or the outstanding term in months. Where outstanding term in months is equal to number of whole months from the date of death to the end of the Policy Term. ‘Monthly income applicable at the time of death’ is equal to the monthly income chosen at inception increased by 10% every 3 years (simple interest) from inception capped at 200% of the monthly income chosen at inception. 24 12 MLI 12258463 SM A4 SMART TERM PLAN PLUS LEAFLET 9 Important Notes: 1. Kindly note that the above case studies are only examples and do not in any-way create any rights and / or obligations. 2. Premium shown in all of the above illustrations is exclusive of GST. 3. For more details, kindly refer the product prospectus. Definitions: “Annualised Premium” shall be the premium amount payable in a year excluding taxes, rider premiums, underwriting extra premiums and loadings for modal premiums. “Sum Assured on death” means an absolute amount of benefit which is guaranteed to become payable on death of the life assured in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. “Sum Assured on Death” is equal to Absolute Amount Assured to be Paid on Death in accordance with the plan variant chosen as defined below: • For Plan variant 1 & 3 (‘Regular Cover’ and ‘Return of Premium’) – the Absolute Amount Assured to be paid on death is same as base sum assured throughout the policy term. • For Plan variant 2 (‘Smart Cover’) – the Absolute Amount the Assured to be paid on death is 150% of base sum assured in case of the death of life insured within the first fifteen policy years and 100% of base sum assured in case of the death of life insured after first fifteen policy years. • For Plan variant 4 (‘Income Protection Cover’) - the Absolute Amount Assured to be paid on death is higher of 120 times ‘monthly income applicable at the time of death’ or ‘monthly income applicable at the time of death’ times outstanding term in months. Where outstanding term in months is equal to number of whole months from the date of death to the end of the Policy Term. The policyholder will have the choice to opt for either ‘Level Income’ or ‘Inflation proof Income’ options basis which the ‘monthly income applicable at the time of death’ will be decided. The ‘monthly income applicable at the time of death’ is defined under the ‘description of product’ section above. “Guaranteed Death Benefit” is defined as higher of: a. For Single Pay - 1.25 times the Single Premium plus underwriting extra premium, if any; For Other PPTs - 10 times the Annualised Premium plus underwriting extra premium, if any, b. 105% of Total Premiums Paid plus underwriting extra premium paid plus loadings for modal premiums paid as on the date of death, c. Absolute Amount Assured to be paid on Death 24 12 MLI 12258463 SM A4 SMART TERM PLAN PLUS LEAFLET 10 "Total Premiums Paid" means total of all the premiums paid under the base product, excluding any extra premium and taxes, if collected explicitly. “Terminal Illness” Refers to a life-threatening, progressive, irreversible and incurable condition resulted from a disease or injury, wherein despite the exhaustion of all possible medical interventions for any intention or pursuit of curative measures, the Life Assured faces an inevitable natural death within a fore-seeable timeframe within six (6) months, consistent with the clinicopathological prognosis associated with the said disease or injury. “Accident”: An Accident means sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent means. Plan at a glance Feature Specification Minimum / Maximum Age at Entry (age last birthday) For Non POS: Variants Regular cover Smart cover Return of Premium Income Protection Cover Entry Age Minimum 18 years 18 years 18 years 18 years Maximum 44 years (For Pay till 60) 65 years (For RP, SP & other LP options) 44 years (For pay till 60) 65 years (For SP & other LP options) 44 years (For Pay till 60) 65 years (For RP, SP & other LP options) 65 years (For RP, SP & other LP options) 44 years (For Pay till 60) For POS: Plan Variant Regular Cover Minimum Entry Age Maximum Entry Age (age last birthday) Entry Age 18 years For RP, SP and other LP options: 55 years For Pay till age 60: 44 years Return of Premium 18 years Where, RP: Regular Pay, LP: Limited Pay, SP: Single Pay For RP, SP and Other LP options: 55 years For Pay till age 60: 44 years For Maternity Cover Maternity Cover Minimum Entry Age Maximum Entry Age (age last birthday) 18 years 40 years 24 12 MLI 12258463 SM A4 SMART TERM PLAN PLUS LEAFLET 11 Minimum Annual Premium Subject to minimum Sum Assured and applicable premium rates. Maximum Annual Premium No Limit, subject to maximum Sum Assured limits determined in accordance with the Board approved underwriting policy of the Company. Please note that all applicable taxes, cesses and levies as imposed by Government from time to time are collected over and above the policy premium. Please note that all applicable taxes, cesses and levies as imposed by Government from time to time are collected over and above the policy premium. Policy Term For Non- POS: 1 Plan Option Minimum Policy Term Plan Option S. No Maximum Policy Term Regular Cover Smart cover Return of Premium Income Protection Cover 10 Years 67 Years 20 Years 10 Years 10 Years 67 Years 50 Years 67 Years 2 3 4 Maximum Maturity Age (age last birthday) For Non POS: For Maternity For POS: Variant Regular Cover Minimum Maturity Age Maximum Maturity Age (Age last birthday) 28 years 85 years Smart Cover 38 years 85 years Return of Premium 28 years 85 years Income Protection Cover 28 years 85 years Maternity Cover Minimum Maturity Age Maximum Maturity Age (age last birthday) 23 years 45 years Plan Variant Regular Cover Return of Premium Maximum Maturity Age (age last birthday) 65 years 65 years Feature Specification 24 12 MLI 12258463 SM A4 SMART TERM PLAN PLUS LEAFLET 12 Minimum Sum Assured Maximum Sum Assured For Maternity cover Premium Payment Term (to be chosen at inception; cannot be changed subsequently) For Non POS: Premium Payment Term (PPT) Single Pay Available Base Policy Terms 10 Years to 67 Years Regular Pay^ 5 Pay 7 Pay 10 Pay 12 pay 10 Years to 67 Years 10 Years to 67 Years 12 Years to 67 Years 15 Years to 67 Years 17 Years to 67 Years 15 pay 20 Years to 67 Years ^Regular Pay is not available in Smart cover Variant. For Smart cover, minimum policy term is 20 years. *For Return of Premium variant, available policy term will be up to 50 years only. For Smart Cover, Minimum PT will be applicable as mentioned in Policy Term section. Pay Till 60 The premium payment term will be equal to {60 less Entry Age (Age last birthday)} Policy term should be greater than premium payment term and can be a maximum of 67 years Maternity Cover Minimum Policy Term Maximum Policy Term 5 years 5 years For POS: Benefit Type Regular Cover For all Plan Variants except Maternity Cover: 5 Lacs Maternity Cover: 2 Lacs For All Plan Variant except Maternity Cover: No Limit, subject to limits determined in accordance with the Board approved underwriting policy of the Company. Maternity Cover: Rs. 10 Lacs For POS: Regular Cover: No limit Return of Premium: Rs. 25 Lacs Please Note that all applicable taxes, cesses and levies as imposed by Government from time to time are collected over and above the policy premium. Minimum Policy Term Maximum Policy Term 10 Years 47 Years Return of Premium 10 Years 47 Years 24 12 MLI 12258463 SM A4 SMART TERM PLAN PLUS LEAFLET 13 Please note that there is a waiting period of 90 days for the policies sold through POS Persons which is applicable from the date of acceptance of risk. If the customer dies during the waiting period, then no benefit is payable apart from refund of 100% of the premium paid since the date of commencement of policy excluding Goods and service tax, any other cess. In case of death of Life Insured due to accident, the Waiting Period is not applicable, and Death Benefit shall be payable. The Waiting Period is not applicable in case of revival of the Policy. For more details, kindly refer to the product prospectus. ^Individual Death Claims Paid Ratio as per Audited Financials for FY 2023-2024 | *As per Public Disclosure for H1 FY 2024-2025 ^^We will endeavour to settle claim within 3 hours for eligible, active, premium-paying policies that have completed three continuous policy years, with a sum assured of up to Rs. 50 lakh, and where the claim does not require ﬁeld veriﬁcation. Additionally, the nominee title must be clear, and all mandatory documents# must be submitted before 3 pm (Monday to Friday) at any Axis Max Life Insurance oﬃce. #Mandatory Documents: •Original policy document •Original/attested copy of death certiﬁcate issued by local municipal authority •Death claim application form (Form A) •NEFT mandate form attested by bank authorities along with a cancelled cheque or bank account passbook along with nominee's photo identity proof •Discharge/Death summary attested by hospital authorities or FIR & Post Mortem Report/viscera report (in case of accidental death) The Brand Ambassadors as depicted herein, have endorsed only the Axis Max Life Insurance Products and are not in any manner endorsing Axis Bank Limited and do not have any kind of association or relationship with Axis Bank Limited. Axis Max Life Insurance Limited (formerly known as Max Life Insurance Company Limited) is a Joint Venture between Max Financial Services Limited and Axis Bank Limited. Corporate Oﬃce: 11th Floor, DLF Square Building, Jacaranda Marg, DLF City Phase II, Gurugram(Haryana) - 122 002. For more details on risk factors, Terms and Conditions please read the prospectus carefully before concluding a sale. You may be entitled to certain applicable tax beneﬁts on your premiums and policy beneﬁts. Please note all the tax beneﬁts are subject to tax laws prevailing at the time of payment of premium or receipt of beneﬁts by you. Tax beneﬁts are subject to changes in tax laws. You can call us on our Customer Helpline No. 1860 120 5577. Website: www.axismaxlife.com ARN:AxisMaxLife/FCB/Axis/STPPLeaflet/January2025 IRDAI Regn. No. 104 BEWARE OF SPURIOUS / FRAUD PHONE CALLS! • IRDAI is not involved in activities like selling insurance policies, announcing bonus or investment of premiums • Public receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint BHAROSA TUM HO 24 12 MLI 12258463 SM A4 SMART TERM PLAN PLUS LEAFLET Policy Loan Premium Payment Mode No loan will be available under this policy for other than Return of Premium variant. Once the policy has acquired the surrender value, Policy loans will be available under this product subject to maximum limit of 75% of Surrender Value. Annual, Semi – Annual, quarterly & monthly premium payment modes. The premium payment term of the base benefit can only be chosen at policy inception and cannot be changed subsequently. For POS: All premium paying term options mentioned above are available subject to maximum policy term of 47 years and maximum maturity age of 65 years.