AXIS MAX LIFE It’s got everything you need It’s the Axis Max Life Savings Advantage Plan helps you grow your systematic savings to build a corpus to address all your life stage needs while providing coverage against risk to take care of your loved ones in case of an exigency About the Plan What this plan offers you Flexibility to choose Premium Payment Term and Policy Term as per your need You have the flexibility to choose the Premium Payment Term and Policy Term as per your requirement, enabling you to decide the period for which you wish to save and the time when you need monies to fulfill your particular life stage needs Guaranteed Additions This plan provides you guaranteed 5.5% of Guaranteed Sum Assured on Maturity as Guaranteed Additions, at the end of each policy year, for first 5 policy years, to boost your benefits Death Benefit that increases post 10 Policy Years In case of death of Life Insured before or on completion of 10 policy years, a sum of Guaranteed Death Benefit, Accrued Guaranteed Additions (if any), Accrued Paid Up Additions (if any) and Terminal Bonus (if any) shall be payable. In case of death of the Life Insured anytime after 10 policy years, 110% of Guaranteed Death Benefit along with Accrued Guaranteed Additions, Paid Up Additions (if any) & Terminal Bonus (if any) shall be payable Maturity Benefit Enjoy 110% of Guaranteed Sum Assured on maturity along with Accrued Guaranteed Additions, Accrued Paid Up Additions (if any) and Terminal Bonus (if any) Settlement And Commutation Benefit You or your nominee, have the flexibility to convert the lump sum Maturity Benefit / Death Benefit into regular income (monthly or annual mode) for 10 years basis your requirement Tax Benefits You may be entitled to certain applicable Tax Benefits under Section 80(C) and Section 10(10D) of Income Tax Act 1961 on the Premiums paid and benefits received by you respectively as per the prevailing tax laws. It is advisable to seek an independent tax advice The guaranteed and non-guaranteed benefits are applicable only if all due premiums are paid. All individuals in accordance with the Board approved underwriting policy of the Company (Males, Females and Transgender) Coverage Minimum - Single Pay: ` 78,738 | Limited Pay & Regular Pay: Policy Term less than 15 years: ` 1,69,379 | Policy Term greater than and/or equal to 15 years: ` 24,425 Maximum - No limit subject to limits determined in accordance with the Board approved underwriting policy of the Company No limit subject to limits determined in accordance with the Board approved underwriting policy of the Company Single Pay: The minimum Premium is ` 1,00,000 Limited Pay and Regular Pay: The minimum Premium, excluding Underwriting extra Premium (if any), modal extra and all applicable taxes, cesses and levies as imposed by the Government, varies as per Policy Term and Premium Payment Mode, and is shown in the table below: Minimum - Single Pay: 8 years | Limited / Regular Pay: 0 years (91 days at the time of applying for the plan) Maximum - Single Pay: 65 years | Limited Pay: 60 years (If Entry age of Life insured is > = 56 years then Entry age of Life Insured + Premium Payment Term will be < = 65 years) | Regular Pay: 45 years Single Pay | Limited Pay: 5 to 12 years | Regular Pay Single Pay: 10 years | Limited Pay: 10 to 30 years subject to Policy Term being greater than or equal to Premium Payment Term plus 5 years | Regular Pay: 20 to 30 years The product allows Annual, Semi-Annual, Quarterly and Monthly Premium Payment Modes. The Premium Payment mode can be changed during the Policy Term Minimum - 18 years Maximum - Single Premium Payment Term: 75 years | Limited Premium Payment Term: 80 years | Regular Premium Payment Term: 65 years For Single Pay variant A sum of following shall be payable: a) Guaranteed Death Benefit b) Accrued Guaranteed Additions (if any) c) Accrued Paid Up Additions (if any) d) Terminal Bonus (if any) where, Guaranteed Death Benefit for Single Pay variant is defined as higher of: 125% of the Single Premium or Guaranteed Sum Assured on Maturity or any absolute amount assured to be paid on death (which is 110% of Guaranteed Sum Assured on Maturity) For Limited Pay and Regular Pay variant Death of Life Insured before or on completion of 10 policy years A sum of following shall be payable: a) Guaranteed Death Benefit b) Accrued Guaranteed Additions c) Accrued Paid Up Additions (if any) d) Terminal Bonus (if any) Death of Life Insured after completion of 10 policy years A sum of following shall be payable: a) 110% x Guaranteed Death Benefit b) Accrued Guaranteed Additions c) Accrued Paid Up Additions (if any) d) Terminal Bonus (if any) where, Guaranteed Death Benefit for Limited Pay and Regular Pay variant is defined as higher of: '11 times the (Annualised Premium** plus Underwriting extra premium##, if any) or 105% of (total premiums paid^ plus underwriting extra premium plus loading for modal premiums as on the date of death of Life Insured) or Guaranteed Sum Assured on Maturity or Any absolute amount assured to be paid on death (which is 110% of Guaranteed Sum Assured on Maturity). **Annualised Premium means Premium amount payable during a Policy Year chosen by Policyholder, excluding Underwriting Extra Premium, loading for modal premium, Rider Premiums and applicable taxes, cesses or levies if any. ^Total Premiums Paid means the total of all Premiums received, excluding Underwriting Extra Premium, loading for modal premium, Rider Premiums, and applicable taxes, cesses or levies, if any. ##Underwriting Extra Premium means an additional amount charged by Us, as per Underwriting Policy, which is determined on the basis of disclosures made by Policyholder in the Proposal Form or any other information received by Us including medical examination report of the Life Insured. While this policy is in force (including RPU mode), should the Life Insured be diagnosed to be suffering from a disease which is likely to lead to the death of the Life Insured within 6 months of diagnosis in the opinion of a registered medical practitioner and the concurrence of Company’s appointed doctor; the Company will advance 50% of the Guaranteed Sum Assured on Maturity (upto maximum of ` 10 Lakhs across all policies which provide this Benefit) upon Policyholder’s request In case the Life Insured survives till the end of Policy Term, following shall be payable on maturity: 110% of Guaranteed Sum Assured on Maturity + Accrued Guaranteed Additions + Accrued Paid Up Additions (if any) + Terminal Bonus (if any) Terminal Bonus is an additional bonus paid only ONCE, on earlier of death, surrender or maturity, provided the policy has been in force for at least 5 years. However, in case of surrender, only the Surrender Value of Terminal Bonus shall be payable 1. Paid Up Additions: The bonus once declared shall accrue and be payable in full on earlier of death or maturity. In case of surrender of policy, the Surrender Value of all accrued Paid Up Additions shall be payable to Policyholder. Paid Up Additions shall participate in future bonuses and Policyholder shall have the flexibility to partially / fully surrender the Paid Up Additions at any time during the Policy Term, in which case the Surrender Value of the surrendered Paid Up Additions shall be payable. Please note that this option will not be allowed in case the policy is in Reduce Paid-up mode. 2. Premium Offset: Upon declaration of Paid Up Additions each year, the Surrender Value of Paid Up Additions shall be utilised to offset the future Premium. In the event where the Surrender Value of Paid Up Additions exceeds the Premium payable under this policy, the company shall pay such balance to Policyholder. However, if the Surrender Value of Paid Up Additions is not sufficient to offset the Premium payable under this policy, then, Policyholder shall pay the balance Premium to the company. After completion of the Premium Payment Term, Surrender Value of Paid Up Additions shall be payable to Policyholder every year till the end of Policy Term. 3. Paid In Cash: Upon declaration of Paid Up Additions each year, the Surrender Value of Paid Up Additions shall be payable to Policyholder every year till the end of Policy Term. The product offers following 3 riders: 1. Axis Max Life Term Plus Rider (UIN – 104B026V03) provides additional death benefit in case of death of Life Insured 2. . Axis Max Life Accidental Death & Dismemberment Rider (UIN – 104B027V03) provides additional benefit in case of death or dismemberment of Life Insured due to accident 3. Axis Max Life Waiver Of Premium Plus Rider (UIN – 104B029V03) provides waiver for all future premiums under a policy and all other attaching riders on earlier happening of either of the following events, provided the base policy and attaching rider are in force: a) Critical Illness; or b) Dismemberment; or c) Death (only when Life Insured and Policyholder are different individuals). Please refer to the respective rider prospectus for more details or visit www.axismaxlife.com Age of the Life Insured at Entry (age as on last birthday) Premium Payment Term (PPT) Policy Term (PT) Premium Payment Modes Minimum Annualised Premium Guaranteed Sum Assured on Maturity Annual Bonus Terminal Bonus Maturity Benefit Terminal Illness Benefit Death Benefit Riders Maximum Annualised Premium Annual Semi-annual Quarterly Monthly ` 50,000 ` 27,500 `` 15,000 ` 5,250 ` 50,000 ` 27,500 `` 15,000 ` 5,250 Premium Payment Modes Policy Term less than 15 years Policy Term greater than or equal to 15 years Maturity Age of the Life Insured (age as on last birthday) Axis Max Life Savings Advantage Plan PLAN FEATURES ARN: Axis Max Life/FCB/SAP/Leaflet/August 2024 IRDAI Regn. No. 104 ^Individual Death Claims Paid Ratio as per audited financials for FY 2023-2024 I *As per Public Disclosure for H1 FY 2024-2025 Axis Max Life Insurance Limited (formerly known as Max Life Insurance Company Limited) is a Joint Venture between Max Financial Services Limited and Axis Bank Limited. Corporate Office: 11th Floor, DLF Square Building, Jacaranda Marg, DLF City Phase II, Gurugram(Haryana) - 122 002. For more details on risk factors, Terms and Conditions please read the prospectus carefully before concluding a sale. You may be entitled to certain applicable tax benefits on your premiums and policy benefits. Please note all the tax benefits are subject to tax laws prevailing at the time of payment of premium or receipt of benefits by you. Tax benefits are subject to changes in tax laws. You can call us on our Customer Helpline No. 1860 120 5577. Website: www.axismaxlife.com BEWARE OF SPURIOUS / FRAUD PHONE CALLS! • IRDAI is not involved in activities like selling insurance policies, announcing bonus or investment of premiums • Public receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint. Illustration Age of Life Insured Premium Payment Term / Policy Term Annualised Premium** Guaranteed Sum Assured on Maturity Maturity Benefit - Guaranteed Maturity Benefit (at 4%#) Maturity Benefit (at 8%#) Example 1 30 years 20 years / 20 years ` 35,000 ` 6,06,796 ` 8,34,345 ` 9,19,344 ` 12,99,747 Example 2 35 years 10 years / 20 years ` 50,000 ` 4,55,000 ` 6,25,626 ` 7,74,113 ` 12,08,508 Example 3 40 years 5 years / 10 years ` 1,00,000 ` 3,89,135 ` 5,35,061 ` 5,98,721 ` 7,44,744 Example 4 40 years 1 year / 10 years ` 5,00,000 ` 4,41,271 ` 6,06,748 ` 6,81,143 ` 9,16,621 1. #Kindly note that the above case studies are only examples and do not in any way create any rights and / or obligations. The actual experience of the policy may be different from what is shown above. The above scenarios are depicted at assumed rate of returns with 4% and 8% and these are not the upper or lower limits of what one can expect from this policy, as it is dependent on number of factors including future investment performance. The guaranteed and non-guaranteed benefits are applicable only if all due premiums are paid. 2. Bonuses are non-guaranteed and are declared at the sole discretion of the Company Let us look at some examples - Below mentioned Premium rates and benefits are assumed for a healthy male (excluding all applicable taxes, cesses and levies). This is assuming that the premium has been paid for entire Premium Payment Term. Bonus option chosen is Paid Up Additions