About Tata AIA Life Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Limited (Tata AIA Life) is a joint venture company, formed by Tata Sons and AIA Group Limited (AIA). Tata AIA Life combines Tata’s pre-eminent leadership position in India and AIA’s presence as the largest, independent listed pan-Asia life insurance group in the world spanning 18 markets in Asia Paciﬁc. Tata Sons holds a majority stake (51 per cent) in the company and AIA holds 49 per cent through an AIA International Limited. Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Limited was licensed to operate in India on February 12, 2001 and started operations on April 1, 2001. Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Limited (IRDAI Regn. No.110) CIN: U66010MH2000PLC128403. 14th Floor, Tower A, Peninsula Business Park, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai - 400013. Trade logo displayed above belongs to Tata Sons Ltd and AIA Group Ltd. and is used by Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Ltd under a license. For any information including cancellation, claims and complaints, please contact our Insurance Advisor / Intermediary 1-860-266-9966 (local charges apply) or write to us at customercare@tataaia.com. Visit us at: www.tataaia.com. Unique Reference Number: L&C/Advt/2024/Oct/3020 • UIN: 110N171V04 Maha Raksha Supreme Select Non-Linked, Non-Participating, Pure Risk, Individual Life Insurance Product Tata AIA Maha Raksha Supreme Select We all want to ensure that our loved ones are never short in terms of ﬁnancial resources to live the life of their dreams. We also want to ensure that the burden of our debts and loans does not become a burden for them and their happiness. The best way to do this is through a Term insurance plan. Tata AIA Maha Raksha Supreme Select is exactly that solution that provides the required ﬁnancial protection to your family. Tata AIA Maha Raksha Supreme Select, a Non-Linked, Non-Participating, pure risk, Individual Life Insurance Product, offers you a wide range of choices to fulﬁll your family’s speciﬁc needs of ﬁnancial protection. 1. Key Highlights • Flexibility to choose from 7 unique Death Beneﬁt options • Whole of life cover available • Acceleration of 50% of base sum assured on diagnosis of terminal illness • Inbuilt waiver of premium on terminal illness • Special discount for salaried customers on ﬁrst year premium • Flexibility to cover spouse under joint life option • Choice to increase cover for a speciﬁc period or throughout the policy term • Option to receive death beneﬁt as lumpsum and/or instalments • Option to defer premiums by up to 12 months with FlexiPay Beneﬁt • Instant payout on claim intimation • 15% lower premium for Women Consumers • Enhance your protection through our comprehensive riders with unique health and wellness beneﬁts 2. Parameters at a Glance Age at Entry (years)1 Beneﬁt Option POS Other than POS For PoS & other than PoS : 18 years applicable for Life Secure, Life Secure Plus, Joint Life Secure, Joint Life Secure Plus, Step-Up Secure and Step-up Secure Plus option 45 years applicable for Legacy Secure Plus option Plan Parameters Minimum Maximum Life Secure 60 65 Life Secure Plus 55 Joint Life Secure5 60 Joint Life Secure Plus5 55 Step-Up Secure 60 Step-Up Secure Plus 55 Legacy Secure Plus Not Applicable Age at Maturity (years)1 Plan Option2 Beneﬁt Option POS Other than POS For PoS : 65 years applicable for Life Secure, Life Secure Plus, Joint Life Secure5, Joint Life Secure Plus5, Step-Up Secure and Step-up Secure Plus option For other than PoS : 100 years applicable for Life Secure, Life Secure Plus, Joint Life Secure5, Joint Life Secure Plus5, Step-Up Secure, Step-up Secure Plus and Legacy Secure Plus option Life Secure 23 18 Life Secure Plus 28 28 Joint Life Secure5 23 23 Joint Life Secure Plus5 28 28 Step-Up Secure 23 23 Step-Up Secure Plus 28 28 Legacy Secure Plus Not Applicable 100 • Life Secure • Life Secure Plus • Joint Life Secure • Joint Life Secure Plus • Step-Up Secure • Step-Up Secure Plus • Legacy Secure Plus 1 2 3 4 Policy Term (PT)3 If “Joint Life Secure” or “Joint Life Secure Plus” option is chosen, the maximum policy term will be determined basis older of the 2 lives. Premium Payment Term (PPT)3 Regular Pay - Equal to Policy Term, subject to the boundary conditions mentioned below. Single Pay – Lump sum at Policy inception Limited pay – Subject to the boundary conditions below with maximum Premium Paying Term limited to Policy Term less 1 month. Beneﬁt Option Regular pay Limited pay Single pay Min Max Min Max Min Max Life Secure 60 564 61 564 60 564 Life Secure Plus 120 120 120 Joint Life Secure 60 61 60 Joint Life Secure Plus 120 120 120 Step-Up Secure 60 61 60 Step-Up Secure Plus 120 120 120 Legacy Secure Plus Not Applicable For PoS Beneﬁt Option Regular pay Limited pay Min Max Min Max Life Secure 60 564 60 563 Life Secure Plus 120 Joint Life Secure 60 Joint Life Secure Plus 120 Step-Up Secure 60 Step-Up Secure Plus 120 Legacy Secure Plus Not Applicable For PoS Beneﬁt Option Regular pay Limited pay Single pay Min Max Min Max Min Max Life Secure 13 984 14 984 1 984 Life Secure Plus 120 120 120 Joint Life Secure 13 14 1 Joint Life Secure Plus 120 120 120 Step-Up Secure 60 60 60 Step-Up Secure Plus 120 120 120 Legacy Secure Plus Not Applicable 100 – Entry Age For Other than PoS 5 6 3. Plan Beneﬁts Option 1: Life Secure Option: Under this option, the policyholder chooses the Base SA at the time of purchase. In case the life assured dies during the policy term, the stipulated death beneﬁt (based on Effective Sum Assured as applicable on the date of death – deﬁned below) less any payout under Payor Accelerated Beneﬁt will be paid out to the nominee (as per the payout plan chosen) and the policy will terminate. The Effective Sum Assured applicable for computation of Death Beneﬁt would include any Cover Enhancement Option purchased by exercising either the Life Stage, Top-Up SA or the Education Secure option along with Base SA. Please refer to Section 8 for more details. Life Secure Option has an inbuilt “Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt” wherein the beneﬁt amount equal to 50% of the Base SA is paid out as lump sum on acceptance of Terminal Illness (TI) claim by us. Upon payment of the TI claim, all the future premiums (base beneﬁt and cover enhancement options, if opted) shall be waived off and the policy will continue to remain inforce for the remaining applicable beneﬁt(s). In case the life assured survives till maturity, no additional beneﬁt is payable, and the policy terminates. Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt illustration: Mr. Rahul, a 40 year old healthy, non-smoker male purchases Tata AIA Maha Raksha Supreme Select for a policy term of 45 years and Sum Assured of R 2 Cr. Rahul chooses to pay premiums for 10 years. Before paying the 7th premium instalment, he gets diagnosed with a terminal illness. Option 2: Life Secure Plus Option: Under this option, the death beneﬁt will be as per Option 1 described above. In case the life assured survives till maturity, an amount equal to the 100% of the Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) towards the beneﬁt option, “Life Stage” or “Top-up SA”, if opted, shall be payable at the end of the Policy Term, provided the policy is not terminated earlier. Beneﬁt Option Regular pay Limited pay Min Max Min Max Life Secure 13 984 13 983 Life Secure Plus 120 60 Joint Life Secure 13 13 Joint Life Secure Plus 120 60 Step-Up Secure 60 60 Step-Up Secure Plus 120 60 Legacy Secure Plus Not Applicable 5 15 For Other than PoS Basic Sum Assured Premium Payment Mode Single Pay/ Yearly/ Half- Yearly/ Quarterly/ Monthly 1Any reference to age is as on last birthday 2The plan option can be selected only at inception of the policy 3For all options other than Legacy Secure Plus, the ﬁgures are in months. For Legacy Secure Plus Option, the ﬁgures are in years 4For PoS, the Basic Sum Assured shall be in multiples of INR 50,000 5For Joint Life Secure and Joint Life Secure Plus, the above limits will be applicable to both lives. Life Secure, Life Secure Plus, Joint Life Secure and Joint Life Secure Plus, Step-Up Secure, Step-Up Secure Plus: ₹ 25,00,000 Legacy Secure Plus: Single Pay: ₹ 1,25,000 Limited Pay: ₹ 2,10,000 No Limit subject to Board approved underwriting policy (BAUP) For Legacy Secure Plus, the maximum sum assured will also be subject to a maximum of: Single Pay: 1.25 times the Single Premium Limited Pay: 10 times Annualised Premium Insured Age 40 0 Policy year Start 45 Policy year end 45 5 9 PPT End 49 85 4 Premiums Waived Pay R 1,11,760 for 6 years Total Premiums Paid R 6,70,560 (excl. GST) Rahul diagnosed with Terminal Illness Cover continues for balance 1 Cr SA Rahul receives Lump sum of 1 Cr 7 8 Option 3: Joint Life Secure Option: Under this option, the life assured (ﬁrst life) and spouse of the life assured (second life) would be covered under the same policy. The policyholder chooses the Base SA at the time of purchase. In case of ﬁrst death of either lives assured or simultaneous death of both the life assureds’ during the policy term, the stipulated death beneﬁt (based on Effective Sum Assured as applicable on the date of death – deﬁned below) less any payout under Payor Accelerated Beneﬁt will be paid out to the nominee (as per the payout plan chosen). In case of simultaneous death of both the ﬁrst life and second life due to an accident, an additional amount equal to the Base SA will be paid out to the nominee as lump sum. The Effective Sum Assured applicable for the above computation of Death Beneﬁt would include any Cover Enhancement Option purchased by exercising either the Life Stage or the Top-Up SA option along with Base SA. In case of death of ﬁrst life prior to the death of second life or simultaneous deaths of both the lives assured; in addition to Life Stage or Top-up SA, the Effective Sum Assured would also include the additional sum assured purchased by exercising the Education Secure option. In case of death of second life prior to ﬁrst life, the Effective Sum Assured under this option will get paid out. The cover will continue with respect to the Education Secure beneﬁt, if applicable, and respective due premiums shall continue to remain payable. The policy will terminate upon payment of the entire sum of death beneﬁt. Joint Life Secure Option also has an inbuilt beneﬁt called “Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt” wherein the beneﬁt amount equal to 50% of the Base SA is paid out as lump sum on acceptance of ﬁrst Terminal Illness (TI) claim of either ﬁrst life or second life by us. Upon payment of the TI claim, all the future premiums (base beneﬁt option and Life Stage or Top-Up SA, if opted) shall be waived off. In case of acceptance of TI of ﬁrst life prior to the second life or simultaneous TI of both lives, the future premiums with respect to Education Secure option will also be waived off. Only 1 claim is admissible under “Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt”. The policy will continue to remain inforce for the remaining applicable beneﬁts. In case any or both the life assureds survive till maturity, no additional beneﬁt is payable, and the policy terminates. Option 4: Joint Life Secure Plus Option: Under this option, the death beneﬁt will be as per Option 3 above. In case both the lives assured survive till maturity, an amount equal to the 100% of the Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) towards the beneﬁt option, “Life Stage” or “Top-up SA”, if opted, shall be payable at the end of the Policy Term, provided the policy is not terminated earlier. Option 5: Step-Up Secure Option: Under this option, the policyholder chooses the Base SA and a Step-Up period (between 1 to 5 years) at the time of purchase. The Base Death Beneﬁt shall be as follows – • During the Step-Up period – Pre-deﬁned percentage of the Base SA as highlighted in table below – • Post completion of the Step-Up Period – 100% of the Base SA. Death Beneﬁt for chosen Step-Up period based on policy year of death The Effective Sum Assured shall be Base Death beneﬁt plus any Cover Enhancement Option purchased by exercising either the Life Stage or the Top-Up SA. The additional SA purchase of Life Stage and any top-up SA will only be allowed post completion of the Step-Up period. If the death of the Life assured is due to an accident, during the Step-Up period, entire Base SA shall be payable, and the Policy will terminate thereafter. Sample Illustration to demonstrate death beneﬁt under Step-Up Secure Option Mr. Rahul is a 40 years old non smoker healthy male and takes Tata AIA Maha Raksha Supreme Select Step-Up Secure Option for a policy term of 45 years and base Sum Assured of R 2 Cr. Rahul chooses a step up period of 3 years. Policy Year Percentage of Base SA 1 10 2 15 3 20 4 25 5 50 1 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% 2 100% 15% 15% 15% 15% 3 100% 100% 20% 20% 20% 4 100% 100% 100% 25% 25% 5 100% 100% 100% 100% 50% >=6 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Policy year Death Beneﬁt (As a percentage of Base SA) Step-Up Period chosen at inception 1 2 3 4 5 Base Death Beneﬁt applicable in each policy year will be as follows: Death Scenarios: Scenario 1: Death other than due to accident • Death in Policy Year 3 (during Step-Up period): The nominee will receive R 40 L and the policy will terminate • Death in Policy Year 4 to 45 (after the Step-Up period): The nominee will receive 100% of base SA, ie. R 2 Cr and the policy will terminate Scenario 2: Death due to accident • Death in Policy Year 3 (during Step-Up period): The nominee will receive R 2 Cr (Base SA) and the policy will terminate. • Death in Policy Year 4 to 45 (after the Step-Up period): The nominee will receive 100% of base SA, ie. R 2 Cr and the policy will terminate. No additional accidental death beneﬁt is applicable. This plan has an inbuilt beneﬁt called “Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt” wherein the beneﬁt amount equal to 50% of the Base Death Beneﬁt is paid out as lump sum on acceptance of Terminal Illness (TI) claim by us. Upon payment of the TI claim, all the future premiums (base beneﬁt option and cover enhancement options, if opted) shall be waived off and the policy will continue to remain inforce for the remaining applicable beneﬁts. The “Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt” shall be applicable only after completion of the Step-Up Period. In case the life assured survives till maturity, no additional beneﬁt is payable, and the policy terminates. Option 6: Step-Up Secure Plus Option: Under this option, the death beneﬁt will be as per Option 5 above. In case the life assured survives till maturity, an amount equal to the 100% of the Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) towards the beneﬁt option and “Life Stage” or “Top-up SA”, if opted, shall be payable at the end of the Policy Term, provided the policy is not terminated earlier. Option 7: Legacy Secure Plus Option: This is a whole of life option with increasing life cover throughout the policy term. Additionally, a lumpsum is paid out at two milestone ages. In case of death of the life assured, the stipulated death beneﬁt (based on Effective Sum Assured as applicable on the date of death – deﬁned below) less any payout under Payor Accelerated Beneﬁt less any payout under Milestone Beneﬁt (explained below) will be paid out to the nominee and the policy will terminate. Please refer to Section 4 for details about death beneﬁt under this plan option. Accumulated Value of Premiums shall be the premiums (excluding extra premium, rider premium, taxes and discount) paid by the policyholder accumulated at a rate that varies by age, premium, premium payment term and policy year. The absolute amount assured to be paid on death is the Effective Sum Assured applicable (as deﬁned below) as on the date of death. The Effective Sum Assured shall be equal to DB multiple times the Annualised / Single Premium (excluding extra premium, rider premium, taxes and discount). Any payout made under Payor Accelerated Beneﬁt and/or payout under Milestone Ages(s) shall be reduced from the Accumulated Value of Premiums for the computation of the death beneﬁt. In case the life assured survives till pre-deﬁned Milestone Age, an amount equal to a percentage of the Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) towards the beneﬁt option shall be payable at the end of attaining each Milestone Age, provided the policy is not terminated earlier. This plan has an inbuilt beneﬁt called “Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt” wherein the beneﬁt amount equal to 50% of the applicable death beneﬁt is paid out as lump sum on acceptance of Terminal Illness (TI) claim by us. Upon payment of the TI claim, all the future premiums (base beneﬁt option and cover enhancement options, if opted) shall be waived off and 9 10 Policy Year 1 2 3 4 5 6 to 44 45 Sum Assured 20,00,000 30,00,000 40,00,000 2,00,00,000 2,00,00,000 2,00,00,000 2,00,00,000 10% of base SA 15% of base SA 20% of base SA 100% of base SA Step Up period Milestone Age Percentage of Total Premiums Paid 15th Policy anniversary or attaining Age 80, whichever is earlier 25 25th Policy anniversary or attaining Age 85, whichever is earlier 75 the policy will continue to remain inforce for the remaining applicable beneﬁt(s). In case the life assured survives till maturity, no additional beneﬁt is payable, and the policy terminates. “Terminal Illness” is deﬁned as an advanced or rapidly progressing incurable and un-correctable medical condition which, in the opinion of two (2) independent Medical Practitioners$ specializing in treatment of such illness, has greater than 50% chance of death of the Life Assured within 6 months of the date of diagnosis of Terminal Illness. The Company reserves the right for independent assessment of the Terminal Illness. Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt is not available in the PoS variant. Premiums will vary depending on the option chosen. 4. Death Beneﬁt In case of death of the life assured for an in-force policy (all due premiums have been paid), the death beneﬁt payable to the nominee is as outlined below: Life Secure / Life Secure Plus / Step-Up Secure / Step-Up Secure Plus options – Highest of: • 1.25 x Single Premium (excluding discount) or DB multiple1 x Annualised Premium2 (excluding discount); • 105% of Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) up to date of death; or • An absolute amount assured to be paid on death3 Upon payment of entire sum of the death beneﬁt, the policy terminates and no further beneﬁts are payable. 1DB multiple is 7 in case of Life Secure and Step-Up Secure Option and 10 in case of Life Secure Plus and Step-Up Secure Plus option 2in aggregate for Base SA and all tranches of Additional Sum Assured 3The absolute amount assured to be paid on death is the Effective Sum Assured applicable (as deﬁned earlier) as on the date of death. Joint Life Secure / Joint Life Secure Plus options – Highest of: • 1.25 x Single Premium (excluding discount) or DB multiple1 x Annualised Premium (excluding discount); • 105% of Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) up to date of death; or • An absolute amount assured to be paid on death2 1DB multiple is 7 in case of Joint Life Secure and 10 in case of Joint Life Secure Plus option 2The absolute amount assured to be paid on death is the Effective Sum Assured applicable (as deﬁned earlier) as on the date of death. Legacy Secure Plus option – Highest of: • Accumulated Value of Premiums1; • 1.25 x Single Premium (excluding discount) or DB Multiple2 x Annualised premium/Single Premium(excluding discounts) • 105% of Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) up to date of death; or • An absolute amount assured to be paid on death3 • Surrender Value as on the date of death Upon payment of entire sum of the death beneﬁt, the policy terminates and no further beneﬁts are payable. 1Accumulated Value of Premiums shall be the premiums (excluding extra premium, rider premium, taxes and discount) paid by the policyholder accumulated at a rate that varies by age, premium, premium payment term and policy year. 2DB Multiple for Limited pay option could be 7 or 10 as chosen by the policyholder at inception of the contract. 3The absolute amount assured to be paid on death is the Effective Sum Assured applicable. The Effective Sum Assured shall be equal to DB multiple times the Annualised / Single Premium (excluding extra premium, rider premium, taxes and discount). The “Base SA” of the policy would be the sum of the amount payable as lumpsum and discounted value of the staggered beneﬁt stream, as computed using the discount factor (as mentioned under Section 7, Flexible Payout Option) as at policy inception. “Total Premiums Paid” means total of all the premium paid under the base product, excluding any extra premium and taxes, if collected explicitly. “Annualised Premium” shall be the premium payable in a year under a non-single pay option chosen by the policyholder, excluding the taxes, rider premiums, underwriting extra premiums, loading for modal premiums, if any. “Single Premium” shall be the premium payable under a single pay option chosen by the policyholder, excluding the taxes, rider premiums, underwriting extra premiums if any. Common for all options – At the time of purchase, the policyholder may stipulate that the nominee named in the policy receive a chosen portion (up to 100%) of the death beneﬁt as lump sum and remaining as a staggered beneﬁt stream over a pre-decided staggered period. The nominee also has an option to receive the commuted value of the future staggered beneﬁt stream as a lumpsum. Refer to Section 7, Flexible Payout Option below for further details. In case of death of the life assured during the Grace Period but before the payment of the premium then due, the policy will still be valid and the beneﬁts shall be paid after deductions of the said unpaid premium and also the balance premium(s), if any, falling due from the date of death and before the next policy anniversary. In case of death after a valid claim under the Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt, the death beneﬁt as described under this Section would be reduced by the amount already paid under Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt. 5. Maturity Beneﬁt Life Secure / Step-Up Secure / Joint Life Secure / Legacy Secure Plus options: Not applicable 11 12 Milestone Age Percentage of Total Premiums Paid 15th Policy anniversary or attaining Age 80, whichever is earlier 25 25th Policy anniversary or attaining Age 85, whichever is earlier 75 Life Secure Plus / Step-Up Secure Plus options: An amount equal to the 100% of the Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) towards base beneﬁt option and “Life Stage” or “Top-up SA”, if opted and applicable, shall be payable at the end of the Policy Term, provided the life assured survives till maturity and the policy is not terminated earlier. The Total Premiums Paid in the above formula shall be towards the base beneﬁt option excluding loading for modal premiums and discount. Joint Life Secure Plus option: An amount equal to the 100% of the Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) towards the base beneﬁt option and “Life Stage” or “Top-up SA”, if opted and applicable, shall be payable at the end of the Policy Term, provided both the life assureds survive till maturity and the policy is not terminated earlier. 6. Survival Beneﬁt Survival Beneﬁt is payable only under Legacy Secure Plus Option on attaining milestone age(s). Percentage of Total premiums paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) to be payable on each Milestone Age is as follows - 7. Flexible Payout Option The policyholder will have the option to opt for lump sum, staggered beneﬁt or a combination of a lump sum amount and staggered beneﬁt, as at the time of purchase (referred as the “Payout Plan” henceforth). If the payout plan chosen includes a staggered beneﬁt, at the time of purchase of the policy, the policyholder would stipulate the beneﬁt amount stream payable to the nominee after death of the life assured. For premium calculation, sum assured for the staggered beneﬁt portion shall be computed as the discounted value of the staggered beneﬁt stream using a discount rate of 4% p.a. The staggered beneﬁt payment frequency can be Annual / Half Yearly / Quarterly / Monthly. The staggered beneﬁt will be paid as per the frequency chosen for the “Beneﬁt Period” (up to 60 months) selected, starting from the next monthly anniversary following the date of occurrence of insured event. Any accrued staggered beneﬁt, due before intimation of death, will be paid along with ﬁrst payout under this option. At any time during the staggered period, the nominee also has an option to receive the commuted value of the future staggered beneﬁt stream as a lumpsum, discounted at the higher of (4% p.a., State Bank of India domestic 10-year term deposit rate prevailing at the time of commutation + 2%). 8. Additional Beneﬁts and Features 1. Cover Enhancement Options: a. Life Stage: Under Life Stage option, the policyholder can increase the coverage amount on happening of any one of the following events, subject to the BAUP and the option to increase the SA is exercised within 180 days of the incidence of the following event(s): *Subject to underwriting Once chosen, the option cannot be changed over the policy term, but the policyholder will always have a right to stop exercising the option in the future. The Additional SA can only be taken in the form of (up to) 4 tranches as mentioned in the above table provided there has been no claim under Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt. Additional premium will be charged for each tranche. The premium amount for the Base SA remains unaltered. Any increase in the SA shall be effective from the policy anniversary succeeding the option exercise date. The policyholder will have an option to surrender the additional sum assured tranches after payment of premiums for ﬁrst ﬁve completed policy years. The tranches shall be terminated after payment of any applicable value on surrender. The tranches will be surrendered in reverse order to which they were availed, i.e. the latest tranche will be surrendered ﬁrst, followed by the penultimate tranche, and so on. This shall be allowed till all incremental tranches are removed. Once reduced, the premium or sum assured cannot be subsequently increased. The policy shall continue with the Effective Sum Assured as applicable at the time of termination for rest of the policy term. This option will not be available with Legacy Secure Plus option or if the product is bought under PoS. Further, under Step-Up Secure and Step-Up Secure Plus options, this beneﬁt is only available post the completion of Step-Up Period. b. Top-Up SA: Under Top-Up SA option, the policyholder can opt to increase the life cover by a ﬁxed percentage at each policy anniversary by paying an additional premium for every increase, subject to satisfactory underwriting as per the Board approved underwriting policy of the Company (BAUP). The policyholder can opt to exercise the Top-SA option at the time of purchase of the policy, provided the premium payment term is at least 5 years. 13 14 Event Additional Sum Assured as % of Base SA Marriage (One Marriage Only) 50% Birth/Adoption of 1st Child 25% Birth/Adoption of 2nd Child 25% Home Loan disbursal* 100%, subject to home loan amount sanctioned The Sum Assured increase shall be by a ﬁxed percentage ranging from 5% to 20% of the Base SA chosen at inception every year till the earlier of: • The maximum sum assured eligibility as per the Board-approved Underwriting Policy (BAUP) is breached • The outstanding premium payment term becomes less than minimum speciﬁed under the product • The outstanding policy term becomes less than the minimum allowed under the product • The attained age becomes higher than maximum entry age allowed under the product • Claim under Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt. This is subject to the Board approved underwriting policy (BAUP) of the Company. Once chosen, the option cannot be changed over the policy term, but the policyholder will always have a right to stop exercising the option in the future. For each tranche, the additional premium will be determined using additional SA and the premium rate which will be derived basis the following: • Attained age as of the policy anniversary at the point of increase, subject to the maximum entry age stipulated in the product. • Outstanding policy term (in complete months) as of the policy anniversary succeeding the option exercise date, subject to the minimum policy term stipulated in the product. • Outstanding premium paying term (in complete months) as of the policy anniversary succeeding the option exercise date, subject to a minimum premium paying term speciﬁed in the product. • Aggregate sum assured (up to and including the increment in sum assured requested) opted for under the contract. • Underwriting classiﬁcation as applicable on the option exercise date. The policyholder can opt to terminate the future increments at any time during the policy term and such termination will be effective from the next policy anniversary. Once the future increments are terminated, it is not possible to initiate the increments again over the remaining premium paying term of the policy. In case the policyholder does opt to terminate the future increments, there will be an option to surrender the additional sum assured tranches (i.e. in multiples of 5% of Base SA) after payment of premiums for ﬁrst ﬁve completed policy years. The tranches shall be terminated after payment of any applicable value on surrender. The tranches will be surrendered in reverse order to which they were availed, i.e. the latest tranche will be surrendered ﬁrst, followed by the penultimate tranche, and so on. This shall be allowed till all incremental tranches are removed. Once reduced, the premium or sum assured cannot be subsequently increased. The policy shall continue with the Effective Sum Assured as applicable at the time of termination for rest of the policy term. This Top-SA feature is not available in Legacy Plus Option or if the product is bought under PoS. Further, under Step-Up Secure and Step-Up Secure Plus options, the Top-Up SA will commence after completion of the Step-Up period. c. Education Secure: Under Education Secure, the policyholder has the option to take an additional life cover to provide for cost of higher education of up to 3 nominated children of the life assured on payment of additional premiums. This option can be chosen only if nominated child has 4 to 19 years of education left for completion of graduation degree under Variant 1 and 4 to 22 years left for post-graduation under Variant 2. Once chosen, the option cannot be changed over the policy term. This beneﬁt is available under all options except for Step-Up Secure, Step-Up Secure Plus and Legacy Secure Plus, subject to the following conditions: • Age at entry is up to 50 years and • Policy term is at least 4 years Under Joint Life Secure and Joint Life Secure Plus options, this beneﬁt will be available only with respect to the ﬁrst life. The sum assured at inception under Education Secure option shall be equal to expected total cost of education of the nominated child. Every policy anniversary, the sum assured will reduce by the cost of education of previous years provided the cover has not been terminated. The Sum Assured schedule is provided in Policy document. Expected total cost of education is determined using present annual cost of education and the outstanding years left for completion of graduation or post-graduation of the nominated child/children. Present annual cost of education (chosen by policyholder at inception) will be assumed to be growing at a rate of 10% or 15% or 20% (compounding) every year. The rate of growth needs to be chosen at inception and cannot be changed subsequently. The term under the Education Support Beneﬁt shall be determined as: Current Grade of the Education Support Nominated Child Beneﬁt Term(in yrs) Variant 1 Variant 2 Nursery 19 22 Lower KG 18 21 Upper KG 17 20 Grade – I 16 19 Grade – II 15 18 15 16 The sum assured under the Education Secure beneﬁt shall be capped at 100% of the base plan sum assured. No survival beneﬁt or maturity beneﬁt is payable under the Education Secure option. In case the life assured survives till expiry of the term of the Education Secure option or till expiry of the base policy, no additional beneﬁt is payable with respect to Education Secure option. This option will not be available with Step-Up Secure, Step-Up Secure Plus and Legacy Secure Plus options or if the product is bought under PoS. The policyholder can opt for more than 1 cover enhancement option. However, “Life Stage” and “Top-up SA” options cannot be chosen together under the same policy. 2. Renewability option at Maturity: At maturity, the policyholder can choose to extend the term of their policy. This option can be exercised a maximum of ﬁve times and is subject to BAUP. Additional premium shall be payable for the extended term and this shall be based on the following: • Attained age at the time of maturity • The chosen increase in policy term This option is available subject to following: • Life Secure, Life Secure Plus, Step-Up Secure, Step-Up Secure Plus option has been opted • Premium payment term is Regular Pay • This option is not available if any claim under the policy for respective life assured has already been made • This option is not available if any beneﬁt under the policy has already expired 3. Cover Continuation Option: In case of ﬁrst death of either of the life assureds during the policy term under Joint Life Secure and Joint Life Secure Plus, the surviving life may choose to continue his / her life cover by taking a Single Premium policy. The premium for the Single Premium policy shall be determined based on attained age, chosen sum assured and policy term. The Single Premium policy shall be chosen from Life Secure, Life Secure Plus, Step-Up Secure, Step-Up Secure Plus options. The Single Premium amount shall be deducted from the death beneﬁt payable with respect to ﬁrst death. This option must be chosen at inception of the policy, however the surviving life assured has a choice to not exercise this option at later date. 4. Accidental Death Beneﬁt: Life Secure / Life Secure Plus / Legacy Secure Plus options: Not applicable Joint Life Secure / Joint Life Secure Plus options: In case of simultaneous death of both the ﬁrst life and second life due to accident for an in-force policy (all due premiums have been paid), Base SA in addition to the death beneﬁt (deﬁned above) shall be payable. Step-up Secure / Step-up Secure Plus options: In case of death of Life assured due to an accident, during the Step-Up period, entire Base SA shall be payable, and the Policy will terminate thereafter. Accidental Death shall mean death which • is caused by bodily injury resulting from an accident and • occurs due to the said bodily injury solely, directly and independently of any other causes and • occurs within 180 days of the occurrence of such accident The beneﬁt due to accidental death will be payable if the accident occurs within the Beneﬁt Option term even if death occurs beyond the term (however within 180 days of the accident). An “Accident” means sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent means. An “Injury” means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused by external, violent and visible and evident means which is veriﬁed and certiﬁed by a Medical Practitioner. 17 18 Current Grade of the Education Support Nominated Child Beneﬁt Term(in yrs) Variant 1 Variant 2 Grade – III 14 17 Grade – IV 13 16 Grade – V 12 15 Grade – VI 11 14 Grade – VII 10 13 Grade – VIII 9 12 Grade – IX 8 11 Grade – X 7 10 Grade – XI 6 9 Grade – XII 5 8 Graduation Year 1 4 7 Graduation Year 2 NA 6 Graduation Year 3 NA 5 Graduation Year 4 NA 4 5. FlexiPay Beneﬁt: Under this feature, the policyholder is allowed to defer the due premium for a period of up to 12 months from the due date, while maintaining the full risk cover under the base plan and attached riders, if any. There is no additional premium applicable for this feature. In the event of a claim during this period, sum assured will be payable after deducting the unpaid premiums, if any, as on date of death or other insured event covered under base product and attached riders. At the end of premium deferment period, the policyholder is required to pay the due premiums, including the premium applicable for the period of premium deferment, i.e. the base cover premium and additional premium (if any). During the Premium Deferment, the policy will remain in-force with the beneﬁts applicable under Grace Period of the policy. Please note the following conditions: • The option is available to all premium paying terms (Regular, Limited) except Single pay • The option can be exercised only after payment of 5 full years premium. • The Premium Deferment shall be available for multiple times with a gap of 5 policy years from the expiry date of previous Premium Deferment. • No interest shall be levied on the premium due during the Premium Deferment period. • Once the Premium Deferment is exercised, it shall continue for maximum of 12 consecutive policy months i.e. one Premium Deferment shall mean 1 annual premium, 2 half-yearly premiums, 4 quarterly premium or 12 monthly premiums, as the case may be. • There should be a gap of at least 5 policy years between the Premium Deferment i.e. policyholder can opt for next - after completion of 5 years from the expiry of last exercised Premium Deferment. • The policyholder needs to pay the total outstanding amount at the end of Premium Deferment period. For example, if the policyholder exercises Premium Deferment in the 5th policy year then at the end of Premium Deferment period, policyholder has to pay the due premium for previous year (5th year) along with the next due premium (6th year) • If the premiums due are not paid within 30 days (15 days in case of monthly mode) of the commencement of the next Policy Year after expiry of the Premium Deferment, the Policy (including Rider(s), if any) shall lapse and no beneﬁts shall be payable in the Policy or the Rider(s), if any) and company shall be entitled to recover the same from any amounts or beneﬁts payable under the Policy or Rider(s). • This option can be exercised from the next premium anniversary, independent of the policy anniversary. For example, for a monthly mode policy, a policyholder having paid 12 monthly premiums may choose not to pay the next 12 monthly premiums. • If the policyholder exercises the Premium Deferment in the last 5 years of the policy, then the next Premium Deferment shall not be allowed. Further, the Premium Deferment shall not be available during the last year of the premium paying term. • This option will only be applicable on the Base premium and rider premium, if any. • Policyholder can surrender the policy anytime along with this option even during the Premium Deferment year. The policyholder needs to intimate 60 days before exercising Premium Deferment. If a premium is unpaid with no prior intimation, the policy at the end of the grace period shall be treated as per the terms and conditions. 6. Instant Payout on Claim Intimation: In case of death of the Life Insured, post completion of waiting period of 3 Policy Year from the policy inception or Revival of the Policy and provided the Policy is in force, an accelerated instant death beneﬁt of INR 3 Lacs from the Sum Assured will be paid within 1 working day from the claim registration date as a gesture to provide interim support. This payout shall be made only upon the Company being satisﬁed with respect to the validity and enforceability of the documents submitted along with the intimation of death claim. The remaining SA shall be payable post the completion of the claim investigation. Further, in case of any discrepancy in the claim investigation where the death claim (including Instant Payout) is found to be not payable owning to any reason whatsoever, the company reserves the right to recover the already paid amount. Eligibility criteria: • This beneﬁt can only be availed if the policy is in-force. • This beneﬁt is not payable in case of death during the ﬁrst 3 policy years. • Applicable only for policies with minimum Sum Assured of R 1 Crore. • On receipt of intimation of death, a payment of 3 Lac is payable as Insta Payment. The balance Death beneﬁt shall be payable at the time of claim settlement. • Documents required for claim intimation are Death Certiﬁcate, Cancelled Cheque / Bank account de-tails, Claim intimation form, KYC of nominee and Policy document. 19 20 21 22 • In case the Policy is during the FlexiPay beneﬁt period, then in case of death of the Life Insured, we will deduct the due amounts from above accelerated death beneﬁt of Rs. 3 Lacs • On assessment of documents submitted during claim assessment, additional documents may be sought by the company • In case of repudiation / rejection of claim, for any reason whatsoever the company reserves the right to recover the already paid amount. The Claimant is liable to pay such amount within 7 days of receipt of such communication of recovery. • This feature accelerates the total claim amount. The acceleration of instant claim should not be construed/interpreted as acceptance of the claim. • The Company’s decision on the claim shall be ﬁnal and binding on the Claimant. In case the Claimant fails to refund the said amount, appropriate actions may be initiated by the Company for recovery of the said amount. 7. Health Management Services: The life assured may avail Second Opinion / Personal Medical Case Management / Medical Consultation services from service provider(s) afﬁliated to/registered with the Tata AIA Life Insurance Co. Ltd. The services are expected to assist the life assured to ascertain correct diagnosis of a medical condition and obtain due care for the life assured in case of illness. These services are subject to: • the availability of suitable service provider(s); • primary diagnosis has been done by a registered medical practitioner as may be authorized by a competent statutory authority; and • the eligibility of the life assured as may be determined by BAUP. Note: • This service feature is expected to reduce mortality / morbidity rates and thereby reduce expected claim outgo for the insurer. • Medical Second Opinion / Personal Medical Case Management / Medical Consultation is an optional service offered at no additional cost to the life assured. The life assured may exercise his/her own discretion to avail the services and to follow the treatment path suggested by the service provider. • These services shall be directly provided by the service provider(s). • The services can be availed only where the policy / rider is in-force. • All the supporting medical records should be available to avail the service. • We reserve the right to discontinue the service or change the service provider(s) at any time. • The services are being provided by third party service provider(s) and we will not be liable for any liability. Riders: The below mentioned rider(s) would be available with the base product: • Tata AIA Life Insurance Non-Linked Comprehensive Protection Rider (UIN:110B033V04 or any subsequent version) • Tata AIA Life Insurance Non-Linked Comprehensive Health Rider (UIN: 110B031V04 or any subsequent version) • Tata AIA Vitality Protect (UIN: 110B046V04 or any subsequent version) • Tata AIA Vitality Health (UIN: 110B045V03 or any subsequent version) These riders can be subject to the rider premium payment term and the policy term shall not be more than the outstanding premium payment term and outstanding policy term for the base plan. Any minimum and maximum sum assured limits on the above riders will remain applicable, irrespective of the fact that lower or higher sum assured might be chosen as the base cover under this plan. If there is overlap in beneﬁt offered under different riders with the base product, then that beneﬁt under the rider will not be offered. The sum assured for any attaching rider(s) will not exceed the Basic Sum Assured except for accidental death beneﬁt rider Flexible premium payment modes You have an option to pay the premiums either as Single Pay or pay Annually, Half Yearly, Quarterly or Monthly modes. Loading on premiums will be applicable as mentioned below Modal loading is as follows: Single Premium Rate : Multiply Single premium rate by 1(i.e. No loading) Annual Premium Rate : Multiply Annual Premium Rate by 1 (i.e. No loading). Half Yearly Premium Rate : Multiply Annual Premium Rate by 0.51 Quarterly Premium Rate : Multiply Annual Premium Rate by 0.26 Monthly Premium Rate : Multiply Annual Premium Rate by 0.0883 If the chosen premium paying term is not in integer years, the permissible mode of premium payment shall be restricted to Single or Monthly only. Salaried Discount If you are salaried and opting for Base sum assured greater than equal to R 50 lacs, you will be offered a premium discount of 1% of single premium or 5% on ﬁrst year premiums for regular and limited pay. No discounts shall be applicable on exercising the Life Stage or Top-Up SA Option as the increased premium shall be payable 23 24 Life Coverage Life Secure / Step-Up Secure Option After 2 years’ premium paid Before 2 years’ premium paid No amount is payable Premium Paying options Size of beneﬁts/policy monies Regular Pay Cover cease to exist Cover cease to exist Unexpired Risk Premium Value is paid out on the earlier of the following events after which the policy terminates: • Policyholder surrenders voluntarily. • Death of the Life Assured • Expiry of Revival Period • Maturity Limited Pay Cover cease to exist Cover cease to exist Joint Life Secure No amount is payable Regular Pay Cover cease to exist Cover cease to exist Unexpired Risk Premium Value is paid out on the earlier of the following events after which the policy terminates: • Policyholder surrenders voluntarily. • First death of any of the Life Assureds or simultaneous death of both Life Assureds • Expiry of Revival Period • Maturity Limited Pay Cover cease to exist Cover cease to exist from the next policy anniversary, which at the earliest would happen in the second policy year whereas the discount is applicable only on the ﬁrst year’s premium. Loyalty Program Reward If you are a member of the loyalty program administered by a service provider empaneled by the Company, you shall be entitled to the Loyalty Program Reward upon the purchase of the policy and upon meeting the eligibility criteria. The loyalty programs foster long-term customer relationship and offer redemption beneﬁts through the service provider’s eco-systems based on applicable terms and conditions. Such reward shall accrue as percentage of the Annualized Premium or Single Premium (as applicable) and shall be made available by the service provider to you in the form of beneﬁts (points, coins, etc.) in the ﬁrst policy year by loyalty program service provider. The quantum of reward shall be determined by the company’s extant policy and shall be disclosed in the company’s website from time to time. The loyalty program rewards beneﬁt shall be subject to the below: • The availability of “Loyalty Program Reward” shall be subject to the availability of suitable service provider(s). • The Loyalty Program reward shall be directly provided by the service provider(s). The rights and liabilities of the policyholder/ Life Insured with respect to the Loyalty Program, shall be governed by the terms and conditions applicable to loyalty program. • The Loyalty Program service is being provided by third party service provider(s) and the company shall not be liable for such services. • The liability of the company is limited to the transfer of the value of the reward to the service provider, so empaneled. • The company reserves the right to discontinue the service or change the service provider(s) at any time and such changes shall be updated on the company’s website (www.tataaia.com). • The eligibility conditions including the quantum of reward shall be determined as per the company’s extant policy and subject to change. Please refer our website (www.tataaia.com) for updated list of eligibility conditions, list of empaneled service providers, loyalty programs and the quantum of rewards. Any changes shall be applicable prospectively. • The Loyalty Program reward shall be applicable post completion of the free-look period, given the policy is still in-force at the time of extending such reward. • The company reserves the right to recover such reward value in the event of cancellation of the policy by you, within 6 months from the issuance of the policy. Non-Forfeiture Beneﬁt on Premium Discontinuance: If any due premium for a non-single pay policy remains unpaid at the end of the grace period, the following is the treatment under various scenarios: 25 26 Such discontinued policies can be revived within the period of 5 years from the due date of ﬁrst unpaid premium by payment of all due premiums together with interest. Upon revival of the policy, all beneﬁts shall be restored and be applicable with effect from the date of revival. Under Life Secure Plus, Joint Life Secure Plus, Step-Up Secure Plus and Legacy Secure Plus Options when a policy is converted to Reduced Paid-up on premium discontinuance after 1 full years’ premium paid: • The coverage will continue in reduced paid-up status till maturity unless the policy is revived earlier. • The Death Beneﬁt is re-set to the Reduced Paid-Up Sum Assured (as computed below) and is payable on death. • The Accidental Death Beneﬁt is re-set to the Reduced Paid-Up Accidental Death Sum Assured (as computed below) and is payable on: • Joint Life Secure Plus: Simultaneous accidental death of lives assured • Step-Up Secure Plus: Accidental death of life assured during the Step-Up period • In case of Terminal Illness claim, the amount payable under this beneﬁt is: • Life Secure Plus, Joint Life Secure Plus - 50% * Reduced Paid-up Factor * Base SA • Step-Up Secure Plus - o During Step-Up period - 50% * Reduce Paid-up Factor * % of Base SA o Post completion of Step-Up Period – 50% * Reduce Paid-up Factor * Base SA. • Legacy Secure Plus - 50% * Reduce Paid-up Factor * death beneﬁt applicable on the occurrence of TI • Any beneﬁt paid for the Payor Accelerated Beneﬁt shall be adjusted from the computation of remaining reduced paid-up applicable beneﬁts. Survival beneﬁt shall be applicable only for Legacy Secure Plus option. For other options, no survival beneﬁts are payable under a paid-up policy during the policy term prior to maturity. • On survival to maturity, the maturity beneﬁt payable under this beneﬁt is: Reduced Paid-up Sum Assured = Reduced Paid-up Factor * Base SA Reduced Paid-Up Accidental Death Sum Assured = Reduced Paid-up Factor * Accidental Death SA Where, Reduced Paid-up Factor = Number of Premiums Paid / Number of Premiums Payable Surrender Beneﬁt: The surrender beneﬁt available under the product varies by the Option chosen. The policy will terminate upon payment of this beneﬁt. • Under Life Secure, Joint Life Secure, Step-Up Secure Option and Legacy Secure Plus option (Post attaining the last Milestone Age), an Unexpired Risk Premium Value will be paid on surrender, which is as follows: Life Coverage After 1 full years’ premium paid Before 1 full years’ premium paid Premium Paying options Size of beneﬁts/policy monies Joint Life Secure Plus • Death Beneﬁt is payable on ﬁrst death of any of the life assureds or simultaneous deaths of both life assureds. • Beneﬁt as deﬁned below is payable on simultaneous death of both life assureds due to accident • Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt is payable on ﬁrst conﬁrmed diagnosis of Terminal Illness of any of the life assureds • Surrender Value as deﬁned below is payable. • Maturity Value is payable at maturity on survival of both life assureds Regular or Limited Pay Cover cease to exist Cover continues with Reduced Paid-Up Sum Assured Life Secure Plus / Legacy Secure Plus Option • Death Beneﬁt as deﬁned below is payable on death of the life assured. • Payor accelerator beneﬁt is payable on conﬁrmed diagnosis of terminal illness of the life assured. • Surrender Value / Unexpired Risk Premium as deﬁned below is payable. • Maturity / Survival as deﬁned above Regular or Limited Pay Cover cease to exist Cover continues with Reduced Paid-Up Sum Assured Step-Up Secure Plus • Death Beneﬁt as deﬁned below is payable on death of the life assured. • Beneﬁt as deﬁned below is payable on accidental death of the life assured during the step-up period. • Payor accelerator beneﬁt is payable on conﬁrmed diagnosis of terminal illness of the life assured. • Surrender Value as deﬁned below is payable. • Maturity / Survival as deﬁned above Regular or Limited Pay Cover cease to exist Cover continues with Reduced Paid-Up Sum Assured 27 28 - Regular Pay: Unexpired risk value will be zero. - Limited Pay: Unexpired Risk Premium Value is payable on surrender – o Life Secure, Joint Life Secure, Step-Up Secure – At least 2 full year premiums have been paid. o Legacy Secure Plus - At least 2 full year premiums have been paid and post attaining the Last Milestone Age The Unexpired Risk Premium Value Factor applicable at time of surrender given by the following formula: Unexpired Risk Premium = Unexpired Risk Premium Value Factor (URPVF) * Annualised Premium (excluding discount). • Single Pay: Unexpired Risk Premium Value will be equal to Unexpired Risk Premium Value Factor (URPVF) * Single Premium paid (excluding discount), A positive Unexpired Risk Premium Value is payable on surrender – o Life Secure, Joint Life Secure, Step-Up Secure - Any time after the premium is paid o o Legacy Secure Plus option – post attaining the Last Milestone Age. The Unexpired Risk Premium Value Factor applicable at time of surrender in all options is given by the following formula: URPVF = 75% * (Policy term less policy duration) / Policy Term. Such Unexpired Risk Premium Value for a policy is determined separately for the Base Sum Assured and each tranche of Additional Sum Assured and all conditions are applicable for each tranche separately. The total Unexpired Risk Premium Value payable will be sum of such computed Unexpired Risk Premium Value for each tranche. • Under Life Secure Plus, Joint Life Secure Plus, Step Up Secure Plus and Legacy Secure Plus Option, a policy shall acquire a Surrender Value on completion of one policy year, provided one full years’ premium is paid for non-single pay policies. For Single Pay policies, the policy shall acquire a Surrender Value immediately after it is issued. The surrender value shall be equal to the higher of the Guaranteed Surrender Value (GSV) and the Special Surrender Value (SSV). • Guaranteed Surrender Value (GSV): The company guarantees a minimum non-negative surrender value which is equal to GSV factor x Total Premiums paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) up to the date of surrender. For Legacy Secure Plus option, the GSV shall be applicable till the policy attains the last Milestone Age. • Special Surrender Value (SSV): Special Surrender Value (SSV) is deﬁned as follows: o Life Secure Plus, Joint Life Secure Plus, Step-up Secure Plus - Special Surrender Value (SSV) as determined by the Company from time-to-time basis changing economic scenario. The Company may revise SSV, based on the then prevailing market conditions. Any change in the methodology/formula for calculating the SSV shall be subject to IRDAI approval , The SSV will be subject to a ﬂoor of: - 95% of Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) if policy is surrendered between 21st to 24th policy year, provided all due premiums until date of surrender were paid. - 100% of Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) if policy is surrendered post completion of 24th policy year, provided all due premiums until date of surrender were paid. o Legacy Secure Plus - Special Surrender Value (SSV) as determined by the Company from time-to-time basis changing economic scenario. The Company may revise SSV, based on the then prevailing market conditions. Any change in the methodology/formula for calculating the SSV shall be subject to IRDAI approval Milestone beneﬁt already paid out prior to the surrender shall be adjusted for the computation of the SSV. Grace Period: Grace Period is the time provided after the premium due date during which the policy is in force with the risk cover. • Grace Period for monthly mode policies is 15 days. • Grace Period for all other mode policies is 30 days. Revival: The policy may be revived within ﬁve years from the due date of ﬁrst unpaid premium and before the date of maturity, subject to: (i) Policyholder’s written application for revival; (ii) production of Insured’s current health certiﬁcate and other evidence of insurability, satisfactory to the Company, (iii) payment of all overdue Premiums with interest. The revival is subject to Board Approved Underwriting Policy. Any revival shall only cover insured event which occurs after the revival date. The applicable interest rate for revival is determined using the SBI domestic term deposit rate for ‘1 year to less than 2 years’, plus 2%. The rate of interest on revival with effect from 1st April 2024 is 8.98% simple p.a. (i.e. SBI interest rate of 6.98% + 2%) plus applicable taxes. The interest rate applicable is reviewed every 6 months and any alteration in the formula will be subject to prior approval of IRDAI. Free Look Period: If the policyholder is not satisﬁed with the terms & conditions of 29 30 the policy, the policyholder has the right to cancel the Policy by providing written notice to the Company and receive a refund of all premiums paid without interest after deducting a) Proportionate risk premium for the period on cover, b) Stamp duty and medical examination costs (including goods and services tax) which have been incurred for issuing the Policy. Such notice must be signed by the policyholder and received directly by the Company within 30 days after the policyholder receives the Policy Document whether the policy is sourced electronically or otherwise. The Proportionate risk premium will be determined as under: Effective Sum Assured x (mortality rate) x (number of days for the period on cover /365) Waiting Period: This is applicable only if the product is bought under PoS. • Life Secure, Life Secure Plus, Step Up Secure, Step Up Secure Plus: If death of the Life Assured occurs during the ﬁrst 90 days from the Date of commencement of risk, the company shall refund Total Premiums Paid and the policy will terminate with immediate effect. • Joint Life Secure, Joint Life Secure Plus: If death of the either or both of the Life Assureds occur during the ﬁrst 90 days from the Date of commencement of risk, the company shall refund Total Premiums Paid and the policy will terminate with immediate effect. Waiting period of 90 days is not applicable for death due to accident provided all due premiums have been paid. Policy Loan: Not available under this plan 9. Exclusions • In case of death due to suicide within 12 months: o Life Secure, Life Secure Plus, Step-Up Secure, Step-Up Secure Plus - From the date of commencement of risk under the policy or from the date of revival of the policy, as applicable, the nominee or beneﬁciary of the policyholder shall be entitled to at least 80% of the Total Premiums Paid till the date of death or the surrender value available as on the date of death whichever is higher, provided the policy is in force; or - From the date of exercising the Life Stage Option (if applicable), the nominee or beneﬁciary of the policyholder shall be entitled to 80% of the premiums paid (excluding any extra premium, any rider premium and taxes) for the increased tranche(s). The original death beneﬁt (based on the sum assured chosen at the time of purchase) and any increased death beneﬁt purchased by exercising the Life Stage Option subsequently but prior to 12 months from the date of death (due to suicide) will remain payable in full. o Joint Life Secure, Joint Life Secure Plus: - From the date of commencement of risk under the policy or from the date of revival of the policy, as applicable, of either or both of the life assureds, the nominee or beneﬁciary of the policyholder shall be entitled to at least 80% of the Total Premiums Paid till the date of earlier death or the surrender value available as on the date of death whichever is higher, provided the policy is in force. o Legacy Secure Plus - From the date of commencement of risk under the policy or from the date of revival of the policy, as applicable, the nominee or beneﬁciary of the policyholder shall be entitled to at least 80% of the Total Premiums Paid till the date of death or the surrender value available as on the date of death whichever is higher, provided the policy is in force. • Terminal Illness: - No claim will be payable if the condition arises directly or indirectly because of attempted suicide in the ﬁrst year from inception or revival of policy. - In case a Terminal Illness claim is not payable due to the above exclusions, the policy will continue with the applicable death cover. - The beneﬁt will not commence till two years are completed from the date of issuance of the policy. • Accidental Death Beneﬁt: Accidental Death Beneﬁt shall not be payable for any losses caused directly or indirectly, wholly or partly, by any one of the following occurrences: - Death because of any disease or infection - Death arising due to any condition other than death solely and directly as a result of an accident - Any Pre-existing condition or Disability arising out of a Pre-existing Diseases or any complication arising therefrom. Wherever the proximate cause is accident which has occurred after the rider inception date, this exclusion shall not apply. - Suicide, attempted suicide, intentional self-inﬂicted injury, acts of self-destruction, irrespective of mental condition. - Death arising from or caused due to use, abuse or a consequence or inﬂuence of an abuse of any substance, intoxicant, drug, alcohol or hallucinogen - Death arising out of or attributable to foreign invasion, act of foreign enemies, hostilities, warlike operations (whether war be declared or not or while performing duties in the armed forces of any country during war or at peace time), participation in any naval, military or air-force operation, civil war, public defense, rebellion, revolution, insurrection, military or usurped power. - Death caused by participation of the insured person in any ﬂying activity, except as a bona ﬁde, fare-paying passenger of a recognized airline on regular routes and on a scheduled timetable. - Insured Person whilst engaging in a speed contest or racing of any kind (other than on foot), bungee jumping, parasailing, ballooning, parachuting, skydiving, paragliding, hang gliding, mountain or rock climbing necessitating the use of guides or ropes, potholing, abseiling, deep sea diving using hard helmet and breathing apparatus, polo, snow and ice sports in so far as they involve the training for or participation in competitions or professional sports, or involving a naval, military or air force operation and is speciﬁcally speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule. - Working in underground mines, tunnelling or explosives, or involving electrical installation with high tension supply, or as jockeys or circus personnel, or engaged in Hazardous Activities - Death arising or resulting from the Insured Person committing any breach of law or participating in an actual or attempted felony, riot, crime, misdemeanor, or civil commotion with criminal intent. - Death arising from or caused by ionizing radiation or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel (explosive or hazardous form) or resulting from or from any other cause or event contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the loss, claim or expense from any nuclear waste from the combustion of nuclear fuel, nuclear, chemical or biological attack. Tax Beneﬁt: Income Tax beneﬁts would be available as per the prevailing income tax laws, subject to fulﬁlment of conditions stipulated therein. Income Tax laws are subject to change from time to time. Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Ltd. does not assume responsibility on tax implication mentioned anywhere in this document. Please consult your own tax consultant to know the tax beneﬁt available to you. Assignment: Assignment allowed as per provision of section 38 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time Nomination: Nomination allowed as per provision of section 39 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time DISCLAIMER: • The Brochure is not a contract of insurance. The precise terms and conditions of this plan are speciﬁed in the Policy Contract. • This Product Brochure should be read along with Beneﬁt Illustration 31 32 • This product is underwritten by Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Ltd. • Insurance cover is available under this product. • In case of non-standard lives, extra premiums will be charged as per our underwriting guidelines. • Rider is not mandatory and is available for a nominal extra cost. For more details on beneﬁts, premiums and exclusions under the Rider, please contact Tata AIA Life's Insurance Advisor/ branch. • This plan is not a guaranteed issuance plan and it will be subject to Company’s underwriting and acceptance. • Buying a Life Insurance Policy is a long-term commitment. An early termination of the Policy usually involves high costs and the Surrender Value payable may be less than the all the Premiums Paid. • In case of POS variant, the product is available with/without medical underwriting as per BAUP (Board Approved Underwriting Policy) • This plan is also available for sale through online mode on Company’s web-site www.tataaia.com BEWARE OF SPURIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS/ FRAUDULENT OFFERS IRDAI or its ofﬁcials do not involve in activities like selling insurance policies, announcing bonus or investment of premiums. Public receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint.