About Tata AIA Life Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Limited (Tata AIA Life) is a joint venture company, formed by Tata Sons and AIA Group Limited (AIA). Tata AIA Life combines Tata’s pre-eminent leadership position in India and AIA’s presence as the largest, independent listed pan-Asia life insurance group in the world spanning 18 markets in Asia Paciﬁc. Tata Sons holds a majority stake (51 per cent) in the company and AIA holds 49 per cent through an AIA International Limited. Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Limited was licensed to operate in India on February 12, 2001 and started operations on April 1, 2001. Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Limited (IRDAI Regn. No.110 • CIN: U66010MH2000PLC128403). Registered & Corporate Ofﬁce: 14th Floor, Tower A, Peninsula Business Park, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai - 400013. Trade logo displayed above belongs to Tata Sons Ltd and AIA Group Ltd. and is used by Tata AIA Life Insurance Ltd under a license. For any information including cancellation, claims and complaints, please contact our Insurance Advisor / Intermediary or visit Tata AIA Life’s nearest branch ofﬁce or call 1-860-266-9966 (local charges apply) or write to us at customercare@tataaia.com. Visit us at: www.tataaia.com Unique Reference Number: L&C/Advt/2025/Mar/1227 • UIN: 110N176V05 Promise your family a fikar-free today, tomorrow, and forever. Introducing Tata AIA Sampoorna Raksha Promise Non-linked, non-participating, pure risk, individual life insurance product Life is full of uncertainties, and the unexpected can happen at any moment. A promise of ﬁnancial security in the face of life's unpredictable events can provide immense peace of mind. This is where the concept of a promise, embodied in the form of life insurance, becomes invaluable. When we make a promise to our loved ones, we are committing to be there for them, no matter what the future may hold. A life insurance is a tangible expression of this promise, ensuring that in the event of our passing, our dependents will be taken care of ﬁnancially. The promise of life insurance extends beyond the present, allowing us to leave a lasting legacy for our loved ones. By ensuring that our family's ﬁnancial needs are met, we can focus on creating cherished memories and building a strong foundation for their future. This promise becomes a testament to our love and care, a gift that will continue to provide for them long after we are gone. Tata AIA’s ﬂagship protection plan, Sampoorna Raksha Promise is the ultimate solution for comprehensive ﬁnancial protection and security to your family. 2. Parameters at a Glance 1. Key Highlights • Flexibility to choose from 4 unique Death Beneﬁ¬t options • Whole of life cover available • Acceleration of 50% of base sum assured on diagnosis of terminal illness • Inbuilt waiver of premium on terminal illness • Special discount for salaried customers on ﬁrst year premium • Additional ﬁrst year premium discount on achieving important life milestones • Flexibility to cover spouse under joint life option • Option to receive death beneﬁt as lumpsum and/or instalments • Option to defer premiums by up to 12 months with FlexiPay Beneﬁt • Instant payout on claim intimation • 15% lower premium for Female lives • Enhance your protection through our comprehensive riders with unique health and wellness beneﬁts • Choice to transfer legacy sum assured to your child with Family Plan option Age at Entry (years)1 Beneﬁt Option POS Other than POS For PoS & other than PoS : 18 years applicable for Life Promise, Life Promise Plus, Joint Life Promise, Joint Life Promise Plus. Plan Parameters Minimum Maximum Life Promise 60 65 Life Promise Plus 55 Joint Life Promise 60 Joint Life Promise Plus 55 Age at Maturity (years)1 Plan Option2 Beneﬁt Option POS Other than POS For PoS : 65 years applicable for Life Promise, Life Promise Plus, Joint Life Promise, Joint Life Promise Plus. For other than PoS : 100 years applicable for Life Promise, Life Promise Plus, Joint Life Promise, Joint Life Promise Plus. Life Promise 23 18 Life Promise Plus 28 28 Joint Life Promise 23 23 Joint Life Promise Plus 28 28 • Life Promise • Life Promise Plus • Joint Life Promise • Joint Life Promise Plus 1 2 Policy Term (PT)3 If “Joint Life Promise” or “Joint Life Promise Plus” option is chosen, the maximum policy term will be determined basis older of the 2 lives. Premium Payment Term (PPT)3 Regular Pay – Equal to Policy Term, subject to the boundary conditions mentioned below. Single Pay – Lump sum at Policy inception Limited pay – Subject to the boundary conditions below with maximum Premium Paying Term limited to Policy Term less 1 month. If “Joint Life Promise” or “Joint Life Promise Plus” option is chosen, the maximum policy term will be determined basis older of the 2 lives. Beneﬁt Option Regular pay Limited pay Single pay Min Max Min Max Min Max Life Promise 60 564 61 564 60 564 Life Promise Plus 120 120 120 Joint Life Promise 60 61 60 Joint Life Promise Plus 120 120 120 For PoS Beneﬁt Option Regular pay Limited pay Min Max Min Max Life Promise 60 564 60 563 Life Promise Plus 120 Joint Life Promise 60 Joint Life Promise Plus 120 For PoS Beneﬁt Option Regular pay Limited pay Single pay Min Max Min Max Min Max Life Promise 13 984 14 984 1 984 Life Promise Plus 120 120 120 Joint Life Promise 13 14 1 Joint Life Promise Plus 120 120 120 For Other than PoS Beneﬁt Option Regular pay Limited pay Min Max Min Max Life Promise 13 984 13 983 Life Promise Plus 120 60 Joint Life Promise 13 13 Joint Life Promise Plus 120 60 For Other than PoS Basic Sum Assured4 Premium Payment Mode Single Pay/ Yearly/ Half- Yearly/ Quarterly/ Monthly The minimum Basic Sum Assured under all options is: ₹ 25,00,000 No Limit subject to Board approved underwriting policy (BAUP) • 1Any reference to age is as on last birthday • 2The plan option can be selected only at inception of the policy • 3For all options the ﬁgures are in months. • 4For PoS, the Basic Sum Assured shall be in multiples of INR 50,000 • 5For Joint Life Promise and Joint Life promise Plus, the above limits will be applicable to both lives. 3 4 Option 3: Joint Life Promise Option: Under this option, the life assured (ﬁrst life) and spouse of the life assured (second life) would be covered under the same policy. The policyholder chooses the Base SA at the time of purchase. In case of ﬁrst death of either lives assured or simultaneous death of both the life assureds’ during the policy term, the stipulated death beneﬁt (based on Effective Sum Assured as applicable on the date of death – deﬁned below) less any payout under Payor Accelerated Beneﬁt will be paid out to the nominee (as per the payout plan chosen). In case of simultaneous death of both the ﬁrst life and second life due to an accident, an additional amount equal to the Base SA will be paid out to the nominee as lump sum. The Effective Sum Assured applicable for the above computation of Death Beneﬁt would include any Cover Enhancement Option purchased by exercising either the Life Stage or the Top-Up SA option along with Base SA. The policy will terminate upon payment of the entire sum of death beneﬁt. Joint Life Promise Option also has an inbuilt beneﬁt called “Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt” wherein the beneﬁt amount equal to 50% of the Base SA is paid out as lump sum on acceptance of ﬁrst Terminal Illness (TI) claim of either ﬁrst life or second life by us. Upon payment of the TI claim, all the future premiums (base beneﬁt option and Life Stage or Top-Up SA, if opted) shall be waived off. Only 1 claim is admissible under “Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt”. The policy will continue to remain inforce for the remaining applicable beneﬁts. In case any or both the life assureds survive till maturity, no additional beneﬁt is payable, and the policy terminates. Option 4: Joint Life Promise Plus Option: Under this option, the death beneﬁt will be as per Option 3 above. In case both the lives assured survive till maturity, an amount equal to the 100% of the Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) towards the beneﬁt option, “Life Stage” or “Top-up SA”, if opted, shall be payable at the end of the Policy Term, provided the policy is not terminated earlier. “Terminal Illness” is deﬁned as an advanced or rapidly progressing incurable and un-correctable medical condition which, in the opinion of two (2) independent Medical Practitioners specializing in treatment of such illness, has greater than 50% chance of death of the Life Assured within 6 months of the date of diagnosis of Terminal Illness. The Company reserves the right for independent assessment of the Terminal Illness. The Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt will commence after two years of issue of the policy. It is an accelerated beneﬁt and is not available if the product is bought under PoS. 3. Plan Beneﬁts Option 1: Life Promise Option: Under this option, the policyholder chooses the Base SA at the time of purchase. In case the life assured dies during the policy term, the stipulated death beneﬁt (based on Effective Sum Assured as applicable on the date of death – deﬁned below) less any payout under Payor Accelerated Beneﬁt will be paid out to the nominee (as per the payout plan chosen) and the policy will terminate. The Effective Sum Assured applicable for computation of Death Beneﬁt would include any Cover Enhancement Option purchased by exercising either the Life Stage or the Top-Up SA option along with Base SA. Please refer to Section 8 for more details. Life Promise Option has an inbuilt “Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt” wherein the beneﬁt amount equal to 50% of the Base SA is paid out as lump sum on acceptance of Terminal Illness (TI) claim by us. Upon payment of the TI claim, all the future premiums (base beneﬁt and cover enhancement options, if opted) shall be waived off and the policy will continue to remain inforce for the remaining applicable beneﬁt(s). In case the life assured survives till maturity, no additional beneﬁt is payable, and the policy terminates. Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt illustration: Mr. Rahul, a 40 years healthy non-smoker business owner, purchases Tata AIA Sampoorna Raksha Promise for a policy term of 45 years and Sum Assured of 1 Cr. Rahul chooses to pay premiums for 10 years. Before paying the 7th premium instalment, he gets diagnosed with a terminal illness. Option 2: Life Promise Plus Option: Under this option, the death beneﬁt will be as per Option 1 described above. In case the life assured survives till maturity, an amount equal to the 100% of the Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) towards the beneﬁt option, “Life Stage” or “Top-up SA”, if opted, shall be payable at the end of the Policy Term, provided the policy is not terminated earlier. Insured Age 40 0 Policy year Start 45 Policy year end 5 9 PPT End 49 85 4 Premiums Waived Pay R 75,107 for 6 years Total premiums paid= R 4,50,642 (excl. GST) Rahul is diagnosed with Terminal illness Cover continues for balance R 50 L SA Rahul receives lumpsum of R 50 L 5 6 Common for all options – At the time of purchase, the policyholder may stipulate that the nominee named in the policy receive a chosen portion (up to 100%) of the death beneﬁt as lump sum and remaining as a staggered beneﬁt stream over a pre-decided staggered period. The nominee also has an option to receive the commuted value of the future staggered beneﬁt stream as a lumpsum. Refer to Section 7, Flexible Payout Option below for further details. In case of death of the life assured during the Grace Period but before the payment of the premium then due, the policy will still be valid and the beneﬁts shall be paid after deductions of the said unpaid premium and also the balance premium(s), if any, falling due from the date of death and before the next policy anniversary. In case of death after a valid claim under the Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt, the death beneﬁt as described under this Section would be reduced by the amount already paid under Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt. 5. Maturity Beneﬁt Life Promise / Joint Life Promise: Not applicable Life Promise Plus: An amount equal to the 100% of the Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) towards base beneﬁt option and “Life Stage” or “Top-up SA”, if opted and applicable, shall be payable at the end of the Policy Term, provided the life assured survives till maturity and the policy is not terminated earlier. The Total Premiums Paid in the above formula shall be towards the base beneﬁt option excluding loading for modal premiums and discount. Joint Life Promise Plus option: An amount equal to the 100% of the Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) towards the base beneﬁt option and “Life Stage” or “Top-up SA”, if opted and applicable, shall be payable at the end of the Policy Term, provided both the life assureds survive till maturity and the policy is not terminated earlier. 6. Flexible Payout Option The policyholder will have the option to opt for lump sum, staggered beneﬁt or a combination of a lump sum amount and staggered beneﬁt, as at the time of purchase (referred as the “Payout Plan” henceforth). If the payout plan chosen includes a staggered beneﬁt, at the time of purchase of the policy, the policyholder would stipulate the beneﬁt amount stream payable to the nominee after death of the life assured. For premium calculation, sum assured for the staggered beneﬁt portion shall be computed as the discounted value of the staggered beneﬁt stream using a discount rate of 4% p.a. The staggered beneﬁt payment frequency can be Annual / Half Yearly / Quarterly / Monthly. The staggered beneﬁt will be paid as per the frequency chosen Premiums will vary depending on the option chosen. 4. Death Beneﬁt In case of death of the life assured for an in-force policy (all due premiums have been paid), the death beneﬁt payable to the nominee is as outlined below: Life Promise / Life promise Plus options – Highest of: • 1.25 x Single Premium (excluding discount) or DB multiple1 x Annualised Premium2 (excluding discount); • 105% of Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) up to date of death; or • An absolute amount assured to be paid on death3 Upon payment of entire sum of the death beneﬁt, the policy terminates and no further beneﬁts are payable. 1DB multiple is 7 in case of Life Promise and 10 in case of Life promise Plus option 2in aggregate for Base SA and all tranches of Additional Sum Assured 3The absolute amount assured to be paid on death is the Effective Sum Assured applicable (as deﬁned earlier) as on the date of death. Joint Life Promise / Joint Life Promise Plus options – Highest of: • 1.25 x Single Premium (excluding discount) or DB multiple1 x Annualised Premium (excluding discount); • 105% of Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) up to date of death; or • An absolute amount assured to be paid on death2 1DB multiple is 7 in case of Joint Life Promise and 10 in case of Joint Life Promise Plus option 2The absolute amount assured to be paid on death is the Effective Sum Assured applicable (as deﬁned earlier) as on the date of death. The “Base SA” of the policy would be the sum of the amount payable as lumpsum and discounted value of the staggered beneﬁt stream, as computed using the discount factor (as mentioned under Section 7, Flexible Payout Option) as at policy inception. “Total Premiums Paid” means total of all the premium paid under the base product, excluding any extra premium and taxes, if collected explicitly. “Annualised Premium” shall be the premium payable in a year under a non-single pay option chosen by the policyholder, excluding the taxes, rider premiums, underwriting extra premiums, loading for modal premiums, if any. “Single Premium” shall be the premium payable under a single pay option chosen by the policyholder, excluding the taxes, rider premiums, underwriting extra premiums if any. 7 8 The policy shall continue with the Effective Sum Assured as applicable at the time of termination for rest of the policy term. This option will not be available if the product is bought under PoS. b. Top-Up SA: Under Top-Up SA option, the policyholder can opt to increase the life cover by a ﬁxed percentage at each policy anniversary by paying an additional premium for every increase, subject to satisfactory underwriting as per the Board approved underwriting policy of the Company (BAUP). The policyholder can opt to exercise the Top-SA option at the time of purchase of the policy, provided the premium payment term is at least 5 years. The Sum Assured increase shall be by a ﬁxed percentage ranging from 5% to 20% of the Base SA chosen at inception every year till the earlier of: • The maximum sum assured eligibility as per the Board-approved Underwriting Policy (BAUP) is breached • The outstanding premium payment term becomes less than minimum speciﬁed under the product • The outstanding policy term becomes less than the minimum allowed under the product • The attained age becomes higher than maximum entry age allowed under the product • Claim under Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt. This is subject to the Board approved underwriting policy (BAUP) of the Company. Once chosen, the option cannot be changed over the policy term, but the policyholder will always have a right to stop exercising the option in the future. For each tranche, the additional premium will be determined using additional SA and the premium rate which will be derived basis the following: • Attained age as of the policy anniversary at the point of increase, subject to the maximum entry age stipulated in the product. • Outstanding policy term (in complete months) as of the policy anniversary succeeding the option exercise date, subject to the minimum policy term stipulated in the product. • Outstanding premium paying term (in complete months) as of the policy anniversary succeeding the option exercise date, subject to a minimum premium paying term speciﬁed in the product. • Aggregate sum assured (up to and including the increment in sum assured requested) opted for under the contract. for the “Beneﬁt Period” (up to 30 years) selected, starting from the next monthly anniversary following the date of occurrence of insured event. Any accrued staggered beneﬁt, due before intimation of death, will be paid along with ﬁrst payout under this option. The policyholder can choose between: a. Level income payout – ﬁxed income payout throughout the chosen beneﬁt period b. Increasing Income payout – income increases year-on-year based on chosen simple interest rate (up to 15%) throughout the chosen beneﬁt period. At any time during the staggered period, the nominee also has an option to receive the commuted value of the future staggered beneﬁt stream as a lumpsum, discounted at the higher of (4% p.a., State Bank of India domestic 10-year term deposit rate prevailing at the time of commutation + 2%). 7. Additional Beneﬁts and Features 1. Cover Enhancement Options: a. Life Stage: Under Life Stage option, the policyholder can increase the coverage amount on happening of any one of the following events, subject to the BAUP and the option to increase the SA is exercised within 180 days of the incidence of the following event(s): *Subject to underwriting Once chosen, the option cannot be changed over the policy term, but the policyholder will always have a right to stop exercising the option in the future. The Additional SA can only be taken in the form of (up to) 4 tranches as mentioned in the above table provided there has been no claim under Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt. Additional premium will be charged for each tranche. The premium amount for the Base SA remains unaltered. Any increase in the SA shall be effective from the policy anniversary succeeding the option exercise date. The policyholder will have an option to surrender the additional sum assured tranches after payment of premiums for ﬁrst ﬁve completed policy years. The tranches shall be terminated after payment of any applicable value on surrender. The tranches will be surrendered in reverse order to which they were availed, i.e. the latest tranche will be surrendered ﬁrst, followed by the penultimate tranche, and so on. This shall be allowed till all incremental tranches are removed. Once reduced, the premium or sum assured cannot be subsequently increased. Event Additional Sum Assured as % of Base SA Marriage (One Marriage Only) 50% Birth/Adoption of 1st Child 25% Birth/Adoption of 2nd Child 25% Home Loan disbursal* 100%, subject to home loan amount sanctioned 9 10 This option must be chosen at inception of the policy, however the surviving life assured has a choice to not exercise this option at later date. 4. Accidental Death Beneﬁt: Life Promise / Life Promise Plus: Not applicable Joint Life Promise / Joint Life Promise Plus options: In case of simultaneous death of both the ﬁrst life and second life due to accident for an in-force policy (all due premiums have been paid), Base SA in addition to the death beneﬁt (deﬁned above) shall be payable. Accidental Death shall mean death which • is caused by bodily injury resulting from an accident and • occurs due to the said bodily injury solely, directly and independently of any other causes and • occurs within 180 days of the occurrence of such accident The beneﬁt due to accidental death will be payable if the accident occurs within the Beneﬁt Option term even if death occurs beyond the term (however within 180 days of the accident). An “Accident” means sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent means. An “Injury” means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused by external, violent and visible and evident means which is veriﬁed and certiﬁed by a Medical Practitioner 5. Flexi Pay Beneﬁt: Under this feature, the policyholder is allowed to defer the due premium for a period of up to 12 months from the due date, while maintaining the full risk cover under the base plan and attached riders, if any. There is no additional premium applicable for this feature. In the event of a claim during this period, sum assured will be payable after deducting the unpaid premiums, if any, as on date of death or other insured event covered under base product and attached riders. At the end of premium deferment period, the policyholder is required to pay the due premiums, including the premium applicable for the period of premium deferment, i.e. the base cover premium and additional premium (if any). During the Premium Deferment, the policy will remain in-force with the beneﬁts applicable under Grace Period of the policy. Please note the following conditions: • The option is available to all premium paying terms (Regular, Limited) except Single pay • The option can be exercised only after payment of 5 full years premium. • Underwriting classiﬁcation as applicable on the option exercise date. The policyholder can opt to terminate the future increments at any time during the policy term and such termination will be effective from the next policy anniversary. Once the future increments are terminated, it is not possible to initiate the increments again over the remaining premium paying term of the policy. In case the policyholder does opt to terminate the future increments, there will be an option to surrender the additional sum assured tranches (i.e. in multiples of 5% of Base SA) after payment of premiums for ﬁrst ﬁve completed policy years. The tranches shall be terminated after payment of any applicable value on surrender. The tranches will be surrendered in reverse order to which they were availed, i.e. the latest tranche will be surrendered ﬁrst, followed by the penultimate tranche, and so on. This shall be allowed till all incremental tranches are removed. Once reduced, the premium or sum assured cannot be subsequently increased. The policy shall continue with the Effective Sum Assured as applicable at the time of termination for rest of the policy term. This Top-SA feature is not available if the product is bought under PoS. 2. Renewability option at Maturity: At maturity, the policyholder can choose to extend the term of their policy. This option can be exercised a maximum of ﬁve times and is subject to BAUP. Additional premium shall be payable for the extended term and this shall be based on the following: • Attained age at the time of maturity • The chosen increase in policy term This option is available subject to following: • Life Promise, Life Promise Plus option has been opted • Premium payment term is Regular Pay • This option is not available if any claim under the policy for respective life assured has already been made • This option is not available if any beneﬁt under the policy has already expired 3. Cover Continuation Option: In case of ﬁrst death of either of the life assureds during the policy term under Joint Life Promise and Joint Life Promise Plus, the surviving life may choose to continue his / her life cover by taking a Single Premium policy. The premium for the Single Premium policy shall be determined based on attained age, chosen sum assured and policy term. The Single Premium policy shall be chosen from Life Promise and Life Promise Plus options. The Single Premium amount shall be deducted from the death beneﬁt payable with respect to ﬁrst death. 11 12 6. Instant Payout on Claim Intimation: In case of death of the Life Insured, post completion of waiting period of 3 Policy Year from the policy inception or Revival of the Policy and provided the Policy is in force, an accelerated instant death beneﬁt of INR 3 Lacs from the Sum Assured will be paid within 1 working day from the claim registration date as a gesture to provide interim support. This payout shall be made only upon the Company being satisﬁed with respect to the validity and enforceability of the documents submitted along with the intimation of death claim. The remaining SA shall be payable post the completion of the claim investigation. Further, in case of any discrepancy in the claim investigation where the death claim (including Instant Payout) is found to be not payable owning to any reason whatsoever, the company reserves the right to recover the already paid amount. Eligibility criteria: • This beneﬁt can only be availed if the policy is in-force. • This beneﬁt is not payable in case of death during the ﬁrst 3 policy years. • Applicable only for policies with minimum Sum Assured of r 1 Crore. • On receipt of intimation of death, a payment of 3 Lac is payable as Insta Payment. The balance Death beneﬁt shall be payable at the time of claim settlement. • Documents required for claim intimation are Death Certiﬁcate, Cancelled Cheque / Bank account de-tails, Claim intimation form, KYC of nominee and Policy document. • In case the Policy is during the FlexiPay beneﬁt period, then in case of death of the Life Insured, we will deduct the due amounts from above accelerated death beneﬁt of r 3 Lacs • On assessment of documents submitted during claim assessment, additional documents may be sought by the company • In case of repudiation / rejection of claim, for any reason whatsoever the company reserves the right to recover the already paid amount. The Claimant is liable to pay such amount within 7 days of receipt of such communication of recovery. • This feature accelerates the total claim amount. The acceleration of instant claim should not be construed/interpreted as acceptance of the claim. • The Company’s decision on the claim shall be ﬁnal and binding on the Claimant. In case the Claimant fails to refund the said amount, appropriate actions may be initiated by the Company for recovery of the said amount. 7. Family Plan Option: The Life insured at the inception (on payment of additional premium) shall have an option to transfer Legacy Sum Assured to his/her child provided the policy is inforce and the primary Life insured survives till the end of their policy term. The optional beneﬁt will work as follows: • The Premium Deferment shall be available for multiple times with a gap of 5 policy years from the expiry date of previous Premium Deferment. • No interest shall be levied on the premium due during the Premium Deferment period. • Once the Premium Deferment is exercised, it shall continue for maximum of 12 consecutive policy months i.e. one Premium Deferment shall mean 1 annual premium, 2 half-yearly premiums, 4 quarterly premium or 12 monthly premiums, as the case may be. • There should be a gap of at least 5 policy years between the Premium Deferment i.e. policyholder can opt for next - after completion of 5 years from the expiry of last exercised Premium Deferment. • The policyholder needs to pay the total outstanding amount at the end of Premium Deferment period. For example, if the policyholder exercises Premium Deferment in the 5th policy year then at the end of Premium Deferment period, policyholder has to pay the due premium for previous year (5th year) along with the next due premium (6th year) • If the premiums due are not paid within 30 days (15 days in case of monthly mode) of the commencement of the next Policy Year after expiry of the Premium Deferment, the Policy (including Rider(s), if any) shall lapse and no beneﬁts shall be payable in the Policy or the Rider(s), if any) and company shall be entitled to recover the same from any amounts or beneﬁts payable under the Policy or Rider(s). • This option can be exercised from the next premium anniversary, independent of the policy anniversary. For example, for a monthly mode policy, a policyholder having paid 12 monthly premiums may choose not to pay the next 12 monthly premiums. • If the policyholder exercises the Premium Deferment in the last 5 years of the policy, then the next Premium Deferment shall not be allowed. Further, the Premium Deferment shall not be available during the last year of the premium paying term. • This option will only be applicable on the Base premium and rider premium, if any. • Policyholder can surrender the policy anytime along with this option even during the Premium Deferment year. • The policyholder needs to intimate 60 days before exercising Premium Deferment. If a premium is unpaid with no prior intimation, the policy at the end of the grace period shall be treated as per the terms and conditions. 13 14 Health Management Services are complimentary services in the areas of prevention, diagnosis, treatment or recovery which may include services such as medical consultation, coaching, second opinion, personal medical case management with the objective of health management and improvement. These services are subject to: - the availability of a suitable service provider/s; - primary diagnosis (wherever applicable) has been done by a registered medical practitioner as may be authorized by a competent statutory authority; - the eligibility conditions of the Life assured will be determined as per the Company’s extant Underwriting Policy; - the eligibility will be reviewed periodically, and changes shall apply without any discrimination to all existing and new customers of the product. - In case of any change, the eligibility details will be displayed on Our website (www.tataaia.com) or You may contact Our helpline number 1-860-266-9966 (Call charges apply), before using the services; - Whenever the eligibility criteria changes or the service is withdrawn, the same shall be communicated to all the policyholders. Prior to effecting any changes, we shall inform the same to IRDAI; and Note: - These services are aimed at improving Policyholder engagement. - These Value-added Services are completely optional for the eligible Life Insured to avail. - For Life Assured availing such services, they are offered at no additional cost. - The Premiums charged shall not depend on whether such a service(s) is offered or availed. - The Life assured may exercise his/her own discretion to avail the services. - These services shall be directly provided by the service provider(s). - The services can be availed only where the Policy / rider is in-force. - All the supporting medical records should be available to avail the service. - We reserve the right to change the service provider(s) at any time. - The services are being provided by third party service provider(s) and We will not be liable for any liability. Riders: The below mentioned rider(s) would be available with the base product: Primary Life (Beneﬁts deﬁned for Life Promise /Life Promise Plus option as stipulated under “Plan Beneﬁts” Section) • The Primary Life Insured (i.e. Parent) coverage shall be applicable during the Policy Term wherein the available coverage terms for Primary Life are till Age 60 or 65 years as per the base plan. • Upon death or terminal illness of the Primary life during the policy term, death or payor accelerated beneﬁt, as applicable, shall be payable and the policy will terminate thereafter. • Upon survival of the primary life till the end of the Policy Term, the primary life shall receive Return of Premiums in case of Life Promise Plus options and no beneﬁt shall be applicable under Life Promise option. The Sum Assured (including any Top-up or Life stage option) of the primary life shall be transferred to the secondary life thereafter. Secondary Life • Upon survival of the primary life till the end of the Policy Term; provided the secondary life (i.e. one Child, as opted at the inception) is alive, the coverage will commence for the Secondary Life Insured and shall be covered till the Extended Policy Term. • The Extended Policy Term shall start post the coverage period of primary life and will continue till the secondary life reaches Age 60. • Upon death of the Secondary Life Insured, the Sum Assured shall be payable and the policy will terminate thereafter. • Upon survival of the secondary life during the extended period, no beneﬁt shall be payable, and the policy will terminate thereafter. Addition clauses applicable • This option is available only for Life Promise and Life Promise Plus options. • Minimum Age gap between primary and secondary life insured should be 18 years. • In case of death of secondary life insured before the policy term, no further addition / change will be allowed. • The life insured can opt for the beneﬁt only at policy inception by paying an incremental premium to avail the beneﬁt. 8. Health Management Services: Eligible Life Insureds of TATA AIA Maha Raksha Supreme Select Plan may avail Health Management Services from service provider(s) associated with the Tata AIA Life Insurance Co. Ltd. The Insurer may also facilitate additional discounts and redeemable vouchers through such service provider, wherever available. 15 16 • The option is not applicable for additional premium paid towards incremental SA opted basis optional beneﬁt i.e Life Stage option, Top-up option, renewability option at maturity and Family Plan option. • The Policy shall terminate on payment of this beneﬁt (if exercised) and all rights, beneﬁts and interests under this Policy will stand extinguished. • The policyholder will be eligible for either of Unexpired Risk Value or Super Retirement Beneﬁt and on payment of either of the beneﬁt the policy will terminate, and no beneﬁt shall be payable thereafter. Further, if the policyholder decides to utilize 100% of the proceed of the Super Retirement Beneﬁt (as mentioned above) to buy an annuity product from the company, such Super Retirement Beneﬁt will be enhanced by an additional 5% of the Total Premiums Paid (excluding discount) over and above the Super Retirement Beneﬁt subject to Company offering annuity product at the time of availing such beneﬁt. Flexible premium payment modes You have an option to pay the premiums either as Single Pay or pay Annually, Half Yearly, Quarterly or Monthly modes. Loading on premiums will be applicable as mentioned below Modal loading is as follows: Single Premium Rate : Multiply Single premium rate by 1(i.e. No loading) Annual Premium Rate : Multiply Annual Premium Rate by 1 (i.e. No loading). Half Yearly Premium Rate : Multiply Annual Premium Rate by 0.51 Quarterly Premium Rate : Multiply Annual Premium Rate by 0.26 Monthly Premium Rate : Multiply Annual Premium Rate by 0.0883 If the chosen premium paying term is not in integer years, the permissible mode of premium payment shall be restricted to Single or Monthly only Product offers discount such as: • Salaried Discount – Discount is offered to Salaried customers opting for Base sum assured greater than equal to R 50 lacs • Staff Discount – Discount is offered to a staff member and spouse of staff member. Staff shall include Employees of the promoter group namely, the Tata and the AIA group, its Subsidiaries, fellow subsidiaries, Joint Ventures (which shall include Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Limited amongst others) and their Associates; • Existing Customer Discount – Discount is offered to an existing customer of TATA AIA Life’s Insurance products as on the date of the application. • Tata AIA Life Insurance Non-Linked Comprehensive Protection Rider (UIN:110B033V04 or any subsequent version) • Tata AIA Life Insurance Non-Linked Comprehensive Health Rider (UIN: 110B031V04 or any subsequent version) • Tata AIA Vitality Protect (UIN: 110B046V04 or any subsequent version) • Tata AIA Vitality Health (UIN: 110B045V03 or any subsequent version) These riders can be subject to the rider premium payment term and the policy term shall not be more than the outstanding premium payment term and outstanding policy term for the base plan. Any minimum and maximum sum assured limits on the above riders will remain applicable, irrespective of the fact that lower or higher sum assured might be chosen as the base cover under this plan. If there is overlap in beneﬁt offered under different riders with the base product, then that beneﬁt under the rider will not be offered. The sum assured for any attaching rider(s) will not exceed the Basic Sum Assured except for accidental death beneﬁt rider. 9. Super Retirement Beneﬁt At inception, the policy holder will have the option to opt for the Super Retirement Beneﬁt feature. Under this feature, the policyholder will have the option to receive X% of the Total Premiums Paid (excluding discount) back from 30th policy year or attainment of age 70 years, whichever is earlier, but not during the last 10 policy years. Where X% is deﬁned as – The following condition are applicable to avail this feature - • Window starts from 30th policy year or attainment of age 70 years, whichever is earlier, but not during the last 10 policy years. Maximum eligible window period is 5 years. • The feature is available to policyholders with age at entry <= 50 years. • The option is only applicable for Life Promise and Joint Life Promise option • No claim for any of the underlying beneﬁts has been registered and is under evaluation/ or accepted/ or paid/ being paid on the Policy • The policy is not in premium deferment period under ﬂexi pay beneﬁt. 17 18 Age PPT PT Beneﬁt (X% of Total Premiums Paid excluding discount) <=40 <=12 <50 150% >=50 200% >12 <50 100% >=50 100% >40 & <=50 <=12 All 100% • Speciﬁc Event Discount - Discount is offered for a special event (Example – First Job), celebratory event (Example – Marriage, Birth/Adoption of child) etc. Premium Paying options Before 2 years’ premium paid Life Coverage After 2 years’ premium paid Life Promise Option Regular Pay Cover cease to exist Cover cease to exist No amount is payable Size of beneﬁts/policy monies Limited Pay Cover cease to exist Cover cease to exist Unexpired Risk Premium Value is paid out on the earlier of the following events after which the policy terminates: • Policyholder terminates voluntarily. • Death of the Life Assured • Expiry of Revival Period • Maturity Joint Life Promise Regular Pay Cover cease to exist Cover cease to exist No amount is payable Limited Pay Cover cease to exist Cover cease to exist Unexpired Risk Premium Value is paid out on the earlier of the following events after which the policy terminates: • Policyholder terminates voluntarily. • First death of any of the Life Assureds or simultaneous death of both Life Assureds • Expiry of Revival Period • Maturity Premium Paying options Before 1 full years’ premium paid Life Coverage After 1 full years’ premium paid Life Promise Plus Option Regular or Limited Pay Cover cease to exist Cover continues with Reduced Paid-Up Sum Assured • Death Beneﬁt as deﬁned below is payable on death of the life assured. • Payor accelerator beneﬁt is payable on conﬁrmed diagnosis of terminal illness of the life assured. • Surrender Value / Unexpired Risk Premium as deﬁned below is payable. • Maturity / Survival as deﬁned above Size of beneﬁts/policy monies Joint Life Promise Plus Regular or Limited Pay Cover cease to exist Cover continues with Reduced Paid-Up Sum Assured • Death Beneﬁt is payable on ﬁrst death of any of the life assureds or simultaneous deaths of both life assureds. • Beneﬁt as deﬁned below is payable on simultaneous death of both life assureds due to accident • Payor Accelerator Beneﬁt is payable on ﬁrst conﬁrmed diagnosis of Terminal Illness of any of the life assureds • Surrender Value as deﬁned below is payable. • Maturity Value is payable at maturity on survival of both life assureds Non-Forfeiture Beneﬁt on Premium Discontinuance: If any due premium for a non-single pay policy remains unpaid at the end of the grace period, cover ceases to exist and the following beneﬁt shall be payable: 19 20 Such discontinued policies can be revived within the period of 5 years from the due date of ﬁrst unpaid premium by payment of all due premiums together with interest. Upon revival of the policy, all beneﬁts shall be restored and be applicable with effect from the date of revival. Under Life Promise Plus and Joint Life Promise Plus Options when a policy is converted to Reduced Paid-up on premium discontinuance after 1 full years’ premium paid: • The coverage will continue in reduced paid-up status till maturity unless the policy is revived earlier. • The Death Beneﬁt is re-set to the Reduced Paid-Up Sum Assured (as computed below) and is payable on death. • The Accidental Death Beneﬁt is re-set to the Reduced Paid-Up Accidental Death Sum Assured (as computed below) and is payable on: - Joint Life Promise Plus: Simultaneous accidental death of lives assured • In case of Terminal Illness claim, the amount payable under this beneﬁt is: - Life Promise Plus, Joint Life Promise Plus - 50% * Reduced Paid-up Factor * Base SA • Any beneﬁt paid for the Payor Accelerated Beneﬁt shall be adjusted from the computation of remaining reduced paid-up applicable beneﬁts. No survival beneﬁts are payable under a paid-up policy during the policy term prior to maturity. • On survival to maturity, the maturity beneﬁt payable under this beneﬁt is: Reduced Paid-up Sum Assured = Reduced Paid-up Factor * Base SA Reduced Paid-Up Accidental Death Sum Assured = Reduced Paid-up Factor * Accidental Death SA Where, Reduced Paid-up Factor = Number of Premiums Paid / Number of Premiums Payable Surrender Beneﬁt: The surrender beneﬁt available under the product varies by the Option chosen. The policy will terminate upon payment of this beneﬁt. • Under Life Promise and Joint Life Promise, an Unexpired Risk Premium Value will be paid on voluntary policy termination, which is as follows: - Regular Pay: Unexpired risk value will be zero. - Limited Pay: Unexpired Risk Premium Value is payable. The Unexpired Risk Premium Value Factor applicable is given by the following formula: Unexpired Risk Premium = Unexpired Risk Premium Value Factor (URPVF) * Annualised Premium (excluding discount). - Single Pay: Unexpired Risk Premium Value will be equal to Unexpired Risk Premium Value Factor (URPVF) * Single Premium paid (excluding discount), A positive Unexpired Risk Premium Value is payable any time after the premium is paid. The Unexpired Risk Premium Value Factor applicable at time of surrender in all options is given by the following formula: URPVF = 75% * (Policy term less policy duration) / Policy Term. Such Unexpired Risk Premium Value for a policy is determined separately for the Base Sum Assured and each tranche of Additional Sum Assured and all conditions are applicable for each tranche separately. The total Unexpired Risk Premium Value payable will be sum of such computed Unexpired Risk Premium Value for each tranche. • Under Life Promise Plus and Joint Life Promise Plus Options, a Surrender Value shall be payable on completion of one policy year, provided one full years’ premium is paid for non-single pay policies. For Single Pay policies, Surrender Value shall be payable immediately after it is issued. The surrender value shall be equal to the higher of the Guaranteed Surrender Value (GSV) and the Special Surrender Value (SSV). • Guaranteed Surrender Value (GSV): The company guarantees a minimum non-negative surrender value which is equal to GSV factor x Total Premiums paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) up to the date of surrender. • Special Surrender Value (SSV): Special Surrender Value (SSV) as determined by the Company from time-to-time basis changing economic scenario. The Company may revise SSV, based on the then prevailing market conditions. Any change in the methodology/formula for calculating the SSV shall be subject to IRDAI approval. The SSV will be subject to a ﬂoor of: - 95% of Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) if policy is surrendered between 21st to 24th policy year, provided all due premiums until date of surrender were paid. - 100% of Total Premiums Paid (excluding loading for modal premiums and discount) if policy is surrendered post completion of 24th policy year, provided all due premiums until date of surrender were paid. GSV and SSV and hence the Surrender Value shall be determined separately for the Base Sum Assured and each tranche of Additional Sum Assured, wherever applicable. The total Surrender Value payable will be sum of such computed Surrender Value for each tranche. 21 22 If the life insured has opted for Family Plan Option, the Secondary Life Insured cannot surrender the policy. He / she has the option to terminate the policy, but no surrender value shall be payable. Grace Period: Grace Period is the time provided after the premium due date during which the policy is in force with the risk cover. • Grace Period for monthly mode policies is 15 days. • Grace Period for all other mode policies is 30 days. Revival: The policy may be revived within ﬁve years from the due date of ﬁrst unpaid premium and before the date of maturity, subject to: (i) Policyholder’s written application for revival; (ii) production of Insured’ s current health certiﬁcate and other evidence of insurability, satisfactory to the Company, (iii) payment of all overdue Premiums with interest. The revival is subject to Board Approved Underwriting Policy. Any revival shall only cover insured event which occurs after the revival date. The applicable interest rate for revival is determined using the SBI domestic term deposit rate for ‘1 year to less than 2 years’, plus 2%. The rate of interest on revival with effect from 1st October 2024 is 8.98% simple p.a. (i.e. SBI interest rate of 6.98% + 2%) plus applicable taxes. The interest rate applicable is reviewed every 6 months and any alteration in the formula will be subject to prior approval of IRDAI. Free Look Period: If the policyholder is not satisﬁed with the terms & conditions of the policy, the policyholder has the right to cancel the Policy by providing written notice to the Company and receive a refund of all premiums paid without interest after deducting a) Proportionate risk premium for the period on cover, b) Stamp duty and medical examination costs (including goods and services tax) which have been incurred for issuing the Policy. Such notice must be signed by the policyholder and received directly by the Company within 30 days after the policyholder receives the Policy Document whether the policy is sourced electronically or otherwise. The Proportionate risk premium will be determined as under: Effective Sum Assured x (mortality rate) x (number of days for the period on cover /365) Waiting Period: This is applicable only if the product is bought under PoS. • Life Promise, Life Promise Plus: If death of the Life Assured occurs during the ﬁrst 90 days from the Date of commencement of risk, the company shall refund Total Premiums Paid and the policy will terminate with immediate effect. • Joint Life Promise, Joint Life Promise Plus: If death of the either or both of the Life Assureds occur during the ﬁrst 90 days from the Date of commencement of risk, the company shall refund Total Premiums Paid and the policy will terminate with immediate effect. Waiting period of 90 days is not applicable for death due to accident provided all due premiums have been paid. Policy Loan: Not available under this plan 8. Exclusions • In case of death due to suicide within 12 months: - Life Promise, Life Promise Plus • From the date of commencement of risk under the policy or from the date of revival of the policy, as applicable, the nominee or beneﬁciary of the policyholder shall be entitled to at least 80% of the Total Premiums Paid till the date of death or the surrender value available as on the date of death whichever is higher, provided the policy is in force; or • From the date of exercising the Life Stage Option (if applicable), the nominee or beneﬁciary of the policyholder shall be entitled to 80% of the premiums paid (excluding any extra premium, any rider premium and taxes) for the increased tranche(s). The original death beneﬁt (based on the sum assured chosen at the time of purchase) and any increased death beneﬁt purchased by exercising the Life Stage Option subsequently but prior to 12 months from the date of death (due to suicide) will remain payable in full. If the policyholder has opted for Family Plan option, post the payment of the suicide claim the policy will terminate and no transfer of coverage shall be applicable for Secondary life. - Joint Life Promise, Joint Life Promise Plus: • From the date of commencement of risk under the policy or from the date of revival of the policy, as applicable, of either or both of the life assureds, the nominee or beneﬁciary of the policyholder shall be entitled to at least 80% of the Total Premiums Paid till the date of earlier death or the surrender value available as on the date of death whichever is higher, provided the policy is in force. - Terminal Illness: • No claim will be payable if the condition arises directly or indirectly because of attempted suicide in the ﬁrst year from inception or revival of policy. • In case a Terminal Illness claim is not payable due to the above exclusions, the policy will continue with the applicable death cover. • The beneﬁt will not commence till two years are completed from the date of issuance of the policy. 23 24 - Accidental Death Beneﬁt: Accidental Death Beneﬁt shall not be payable for any losses caused directly or indirectly, wholly or partly, by any one of the following occurrences: • Death because of any disease or infection • Death arising due to any condition other than death solely and directly as a result of an accident • Any Pre-existing condition or Disability arising out of a Pre-existing Diseases or any complication arising therefrom. Wherever the proximate cause is accident which has occurred after the rider inception date, this exclusion shall not apply. • Suicide, attempted suicide, intentional self-inﬂicted injury, acts of self-destruction, irrespective of mental condition. • Death arising from or caused due to use, abuse or a consequence or inﬂuence of an abuse of any substance, intoxicant, drug, alcohol or hallucinogen • Death arising out of or attributable to foreign invasion, act of foreign enemies, hostilities, warlike operations (whether war be declared or not or while performing duties in the armed forces of any country during war or at peace time), participation in any naval, military or air-force operation, civil war, public defense, rebellion, revolution, insurrection, military or usurped power. • Death caused by participation of the insured person in any ﬂying activity, except as a bona ﬁde, fare-paying passenger of a recognized airline on regular routes and on a scheduled timetable. • Insured Person whilst engaging in a speed contest or racing of any kind (other than on foot), bungee jumping, parasailing, ballooning, parachuting, skydiving, paragliding, hang gliding, mountain or rock climbing necessitating the use of guides or ropes, potholing, abseiling, deep sea diving using hard helmet and breathing apparatus, polo, snow and ice sports in so far as they involve the training for or participation in competitions or professional sports, or involving a naval, military or air force operation and is speciﬁcally speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule. • Working in underground mines, tunnelling or explosives, or involving electrical installation with high tension supply, or as jockeys or circus personnel, or engaged in Hazardous Activities • Death arising or resulting from the Insured Person committing any breach of law or participating in an actual or attempted felony, riot, crime, misdemeanor, or civil commotion with criminal intent. • Death arising from or caused by ionizing radiation or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel (explosive or hazardous form) or resulting from or from any other cause or event contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the loss, claim or expense from any nuclear waste from the combustion of nuclear fuel, nuclear, chemical or biological attack. Tax Beneﬁt: Income Tax beneﬁts would be available as per the prevailing income tax laws, subject to fulﬁlment of conditions stipulated therein. Income Tax laws are subject to change from time to time. Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Ltd. does not assume responsibility on tax implication mentioned anywhere in this document. Please consult your own tax consultant to know the tax beneﬁt available to you. Assignment: Assignment allowed as per provision of section 38 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time Nomination: Nomination allowed as per provision of section 39 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time DISCLAIMER: • The Brochure is not a contract of insurance. The precise terms and conditions of this plan are speciﬁed in the Policy Contract. • This Product Brochure should be read along with Beneﬁt Illustration • This product is underwritten by Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Ltd. • Insurance cover is available under this product. • In case of non-standard lives, extra premiums will be charged as per our underwriting guidelines. • Rider is not mandatory and is available for a nominal extra cost. For more details on beneﬁts, premiums and exclusions under the Rider, please contact Tata AIA Life's Insurance Advisor/ branch. • This plan is not a guaranteed issuance plan and it will be subject to Company’s underwriting and acceptance. • Premium will vary depending on the option chosen • Buying a Life Insurance Policy is a long-term commitment. An early termination of the Policy usually involves high costs and the Surrender Value payable may be less than the all the Premiums Paid. • In case of POS variant, the product is available with/without medical underwriting as per BAUP (Board Approved Underwriting Policy) • This plan is also available for sale through online mode on Company’s web-site www.tataaia.com 25 26 BEWARE OF SPURIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS/ FRAUDULENT OFFERS IRDAI or its ofﬁcials do not involve in activities like selling insurance policies, announcing bonus or investment of premiums. Public receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint.